MATT: Hello, and welcome, everybody, to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and shout dirty
things at me and play Dungeons &amp; Dragons. Way
too late on that draw. But yes, welcome! First and
foremost, before we jump into tonight's game, we
have some announcements to get through.
LIAM: Testicle roach!
(dubious noises)
MATT: Before we get into the formal announcements,
first off, those of us who were at the Stream of
Many Eyes this past weekend had a great time. Hope
you guys who tuned in to check out any of it have
looked on YouTube to see the videos. We had some
fun games with some great DMs-- I had the
opportunity with the Force Grey game-- and we all
got to play with a bunch of other great people in
the community. And Deborah Ann Woll is an amazing
DM. She's pretty badass. But yeah, anyway, hope
you guys enjoyed it. But, bringing us into our
first announcements tonight, we have our fantastic
returning partner-in-crime for this campaign thus
far: our sponsor, D&amp;D Beyond. Sam.
SAM: D&amp;D Beyond, everyone. Yeah, there's an
animated thing that, if you haven't seen, you
should check out, that's pretty cool. As announced
during the Stream of Many Eyes this past weekend,
new adventures, Waterdeep: Dragon Heist and
Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage, are now
available-- on Laura's phone-- for preorder on D&amp;D
Beyond.
MATT: Fun note to that, actually, too: the Dragon
Heist adventure, I was one of the story and creative
consultants on for that book.
LIAM: Humble dragon-brag.
MATT: A little bit, every now and then. But I got
to put a little bit of my flavor on there. So many
great people put it together; I was just happy to
be even a part of that.
LAURA: I like how none of us knew that.
(laughter)
MATT: Great friends, guys. It's really-- just
exemplifies the relationship.
LAURA: What's your name again?
SAM: Check out the D&amp;D Beyond marketplace now to
learn more and order now. And the great thing
about D&amp;D Beyond, guys, is that it simplifies
managing your stats and inventory so you can just
focus on creating. Creating new encounters,
creating new characters, creating new monsters.
And I thought I would inspire our audience by
showing them what kind of-- some samples of some
new monsters that they could create. Now, you
could use the same old stats, but maybe you give
them a little new spin or a new flair. And to
help, I made some artistic interpretations of some
of my new monsters. So these are some new monsters
you can create. You guys have all heard of a
bulette? We fought them? Well, this is a
bull-ette. It's a female bullet! You can tell
'cause it's pink!
MARISHA: Did you print out a picture of a bullet?
SAM: Yeah, I printed out a picture of a bullet and
I colored it in pink. And it only fires once, so
it's a very quick encounter. You've heard of a
displacer beast? This is a Despacito beast. It's
the same thing as a displacer beast, except you
hear "dub-a-dub-a Puerto Rico dub-a-dub-a ay,
bandito" when it goes invisible.
MATT: They don't actually go invisible, but
continue.
LIAM: Which is a problem, 'cause it blows the
invisibility.
LAURA: Did your children draw these, or--
SAM: No, I drew these. You guys have heard of an
owlbear. Well, what about putting a little
creative spin on it and making it a bowel-bear? It
has crippling IBS. Oh, there's more, guys.
TRAVIS: It could also be like a fro-yo factory, I
mean, that's not--
SAM: Yeah, it has a shit-spray attack. Here's one
I'm pretty proud of. You guys, there's a monster
in the Manual called the giant wasp. Well, this is
the giant WASP. But he's a White Anglo-Saxon
Person. A WASP! You know, a WASP-y guy! He's a
WASP!
ASHLEY: Is that what the 'P' stands for?
SAM: Yeah!
MARISHA: I don't think that's--
SAM: That's not true? I don't know.
MARISHA: I feel like you're reaching.
SAM: Okay, there's two more.
LAURA: Oh my god, please stop.
SAM: Okay, there's two more. This is a bone
dirtdevil. It's a bone devil that cleans up after
every fight.
LIAM: Did you draw that one, or is it your kid?
SAM: Yeah, I drew that one! Last, but not least,
it's a Fanta-core!
(laughter)
SAM: It's just a manticore with Fanta as a head.
TRAVIS: There's a lot of work going into this. You
can tell. I mean, there are Xeroxed copies.
SAM: You like the bone dirtdevil?
LAURA: I do.
TALIESIN: I want a Fanta-core right now.
MATT: Fanta-core, I'm down with.
TALIESIN: What flavors does the Fanta-core come
in?
MATT: Dangerous and well-branded.
SAM: Guys, there were more that I didn't even
draw. There was the Lin Manuel Miranda-boleth.
(laughter)
SAM: There was a Nick Frost giant. He always has
Simon Pegg with him.
(laughter)
SAM: Check out more on my website.
MATT: Save those for the next Sam Riegel bundle
you can buy on D&amp;D Beyond six months from now.
LIAM: I'm pretty sure the only monster here is
you.
MATT: Thank you, Sam, and thank you, D&amp;D Beyond.
LAURA: Sorry, D&amp;D Beyond.
MATT: To that note too, as well, I released a couple
small updates to the Blood Hunter that went up on
D&amp;D Beyond as well, as well as on the DMs Guild.
So for those who are playing, check and see if
there's anything that affects your class. It might
be the case. Minor tweaks, but things that I think
will help improve gameplay and more fun, so. All
right. The standard edition of Vox Machina:
Origins are still for sale, apparently. We're sold
out of the special editions. Seems to be the case.
But the standard editions are still available. You
can go to critrole.com for information and detail
on that. Or the Geek &amp; Sundry and Alpha online
shops, as where you'll find it for purchase. Let's
see. Talks Machina, of course, will be happening
about this episode, tonight, next Tuesday at 7 PM
Pacific Time, with our wonderful host, Brian W.
Foster, and a number of our cast members will be
attending to discuss the insanity that is imminent
to occur this evening. So check that out. Don't
forget to submit your fanart or gif of the week to
submit@talksmachina.com. And a reminder, through
Twitch Prime, if you have your Amazon Prime
account, you can connect it with your Twitch
account, and once a month you get a free
subscription to a Twitch channel of your choice.
It's free, and you get to support some of your
favorite creators out there, so go check it out if
you haven't.
LAURA: For a split-second, you sounded like Kermit
the Frog.
MATT: (Kermit voice) Oh, I'm just trying to make
sure that you get your proper announcements there
for your game. Okay. Let's play some D&amp;D.
(laughter)
MATT: (Kermit voice) Roll initiative. (normal
voice) All right, so, on that note, I believe it's
time to dive into tonight's episode of Critical
Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Hello, and welcome back.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Oh man, that's a good one. Winner. That's
a blue-ribbon echelon.
LIAM: (tearfully) I just thought of it five
seconds ago and I'm so happy.
MATT: Welcome back, everybody.
(laughter)
MATT: So. Where we last left off, the Mighty Nein
have been making their way towards Beleben and the
Labenda Swamp to tackle the first of their two
tasks they had taken from the Gentleman in Zadash.
Traveling along the way, you managed to save and
make friends with a very young kenku named Kiri
who has been accompanying you through your journey
thus far. You managed to find an individual who
could guide you through the swamp, who was
summarily taken and probably eaten by a troll that
was stalking you through the swamp. You found an
ally named Cali, Calianna, who was a
dragon-blooded sorcerer who seemed to have aligned
interests towards the direction you were traveling
to find the safe house that belonged to the
Gentleman that had gone quiet. Upon hearing that
there had been some sort of attack on it, all of
you went through the swamp, forded the dangers,
made your way to the base of the tree, where it
was discovered to be within and below the base of
this large banyan tree on the northern side of the
Labenda Swamp.
LAURA: Is it called a bangin' tree?
MATT: Banyan. It's a bangin' tree. Just want you
to know, of all the trees I've seen, it's pretty
bangin'. After investigating the scene and trying
to pick up details about what had transpired, you
found a number of bodies that had been put up,
left to bloat, and die as a warning for those who
had made their way in. On the inside, it looks
like the interior of the safe house had been
cleaned out and summarily dragged through a
subterranean tunnel. Following this tunnel down
below, you found strange, twisted-looking merfolk
called merrow that seemed to have been living in
these partially submerged tunnels, this system
beneath the swamp. You engaged in battle, killed a
number of them, and upon sifting through some of
the remnants of what was dragged out of the safe
house, you discovered Cali's quarry, which was a
bowl that could speak to the Scaled Tyrant,
Tiamat. You decided what to do, and after a brief
confrontation, the bowl was handed over to Yasha,
who attempted to sunder it using her Magician's
Judge, which succeeded: the item was left
shattered into pieces. Cali, with her quest
complete and not wishing to put herself into any
further danger, decided to leave, bidding you all
adieu, and clambered back up through the strange,
dug tunnel that leads to the surface. You guys
were left to think about what the next course of
action was before Fjord made a brief swimming
excursion into one of the far-off tunnels that led
to a larger chamber and a base of operations where
more of these merrow live. From the outskirts of
what you could see, more remnants of what was
taken from the safe house existed further in.
Mighty Nein, you've seen Cali clamber off. You
guys have taken down from the heat of the moment.
What do you wish to do?
TRAVIS: We got to rest up, right?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm a little tired.
LAURA: We should probably sleep.
SAM: But there's fish men and possibly fish women
right down there that could come out and kill us
in our sleep.
TRAVIS: I think Caleb has a little booby trap for
that, don't you?
LIAM: Caleb starts silver threading the entrance
that Fjord swam through.
TALIESIN: I say we sleep upstairs.
LAURA: Upstairs?
TALIESIN: Pull the rope up, that way we'll have
plenty of time if we hear them coming back up.
TRAVIS: Add some distance, yeah.
LAURA and TRAVIS: Okay, okay, okay.
SAM: What if there's unlimited numbers of them?
What if there's a whole--
TRAVIS: I only saw, like, five.
SAM: You only saw like five. Did you keep going
down into the tunnels?
TRAVIS: No, but I got pretty fucking sharp eyes,
all right? They call me Eagle-Eye Fjord where I
come from.
LAURA: Did they really?
TRAVIS: (cawing) Crow Fjord, or maybe raven, you
don't know.
MARISHA: That's a lot of nicknames.
TRAVIS: It is.
TALIESIN: With the warning system, we'll have
plenty of time to get away if there's too many of
them and they'll have no way up if we pull the
rope up.
LAURA: Well, what will we put in the doorway of
the tree, though?
TRAVIS: I don't know if we leave the tree.
LAURA: No, are we sleeping in the tree?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: People will keep watch.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
TALIESIN: That way we'll have an early warning
before they even manage to crawl their way up.
TRAVIS: And we know where the entrance is.
LIAM: The moment that they exit the pool, we'll
know and it would wake me up, or you up, or
anybody up.
SAM: We're just going to gloss over the fact that
Fjord has three bird nicknames?
LAURA: Bird-Eye Fjord I think is what he was
getting at, you know?
TRAVIS: Also very popular.
MATT: Kiri pipes up. (like Jester) "Bird-Eye
Fjord."
TRAVIS: That's right, Kiri, Bird-Eye Fjord.
MATT: (like Jester) "Bird-Eye Fjord."
TRAVIS: It's sticking.
MATT: (like Fjord) "Sticking."
SAM: That does not sound good.
MARISHA: Can we call you B.E.F. for short?
Bird-Eye Fjord.
TRAVIS: No. We make our way up the rope into the
bottom of the tree, but the entrance is still open.
MATT: Okay. As you guys are making your way up and
climbing using the roots and the rope and the
interior, you begin to, now that you're not
focused on what's below, notice that a lot of the
earth in this particular tunnel-- that isn't too
wide necessarily, it's about three feet wide in
most places-- You can see the claw marks where
it's been dug out. The softer portion of the
ground where you landed upon emerging from making
your way down, you can see a lot of the earth and chunks of
root that have been carved out. It wasn't a natural
tunnel or something they discovered; they dug up
into the safe house to retrieve whatever was
inside. Nevertheless, you all make your way up
into the hollow base of the safe house tree. You
guys can set up camp if you'd like to.
TRAVIS: I'll take first watch, if you want. I can
post up outside and do a little illusion work.
MARISHA: I'll join you.
LAURA: I'm going to spend a little time with Kiri.
I want to teach you some sayings. How long can you
keep mimicking things?
MATT: (like Jester) "Mimicking things."
LAURA: I'm going to take that as a long time.
MATT: (like Jester) "Long time."
LAURA: Okay, good. I'm going to tell you if
someone asks what your name is, you say, "I am Kiri."
MATT: (like Jester) "I am Kiri."
LAURA: See, look at this, this is great! Okay, and
then if they go, "Are you nice?" You say, "Yes,
"I'm very sweet."
MATT: (like Jester) "Yes, I'm very sweet."
LAURA: If they say something you don't like, you
say, "Go fuck yourself."
MATT: (like Jester) "Go fuck yourself."
LAURA: Yes.
TRAVIS: Oh my god, I can't believe you said it.
SAM: It's like a sound board.
TRAVIS: Go fuck yourself.
LAURA: You say, "Fuck yourself."
MATT: (like Jester) "Go fuck yourself."
LAURA: Yes, that's good. Okay, that's a good
start.
SAM: Wait, if you get really excited, you should
go (air horn blaring).
MATT: (air horn blaring)
LAURA: Oh no, don't do that, Kiri! Don't!
LIAM: Frumpkin's hair gets poofed out and his tail
floofs out and he starts growling at the sound.
MARISHA: Hey, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
SAM: Are we going to sleep?
LAURA: I think so.
TRAVIS: About what time is it, anyway? Light still
coming in from the outside of the tree?
MATT: At this point, it's probably just past dusk.
There's a little bit of blue cresting into night
time. Light's coming through the trees, but it
looks like you're about half an hour out from a
pitch black sky.
TRAVIS: All right.
LIAM: Is it my turn with the dodecahedron?
LAURA: Oh yes! Do you want it?
LIAM: I do.
SAM: For today?
LAURA: But wait for the morning, unless you want
to use it today, and then somebody else will get
it in the morning. Because it only lasts for 24
hours.
LIAM: Did you use it?
SAM: I did not. Oh, I did. We have to save it for
tomorrow.
LIAM: I more want to examine it.
LAURA: Oh, yes, here. Do you want to take it out
of the bag?
LIAM: No. Can I borrow the bag?
LAURA: Here's the bag.
LIAM: I'm going to spend maybe a half-hour before
bed not trying to use it, but just examine it.
MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check.
LIAM: 15.
MATT: Okay. Assessing its design, paying attention
to its construct and the handles, and the edging
of where the different facets of it are affixed to
this cage-like exterior to it, you really have no
idea what material it's made from. The faint
magical essence that comes off of it, and with the
training you have had across the various schools
of magic, this seems hard to pin down. You're not
sure the source of its magic, but it does seem
very old. It seems like it's been shaped or it's
been polished from whatever its raw form was at
one point in time.
LIAM: Well, this evening I'm going to use it for
the grand purpose of being my pillow in the bag,
so I'm going to sleep.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: It's in the bag.
LAURA: (whispers) I'm putting it back on my
body.
LIAM: Does my head do this?
LAURA: Oh, you were sleeping on it?
MATT: Yeah, using it as a pillow.
LAURA: Just kidding!
MARISHA: Hey, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA: Let me ask you something.
TRAVIS: Shoot.
MARISHA: I think I messed up. I think maybe I
should apologize to Caleb. I'm not very good at
apologizing, though. I was wondering if maybe you
could give me some pointers for apologizing.
TRAVIS: You're not good at apologizing?
MARISHA: You're being facetious, aren't you?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm fucking with you. You reckon you
need to apologize?
MARISHA: I probably got a little too aggressive,
probably shouldn't have grabbed him like that. Got
a little too angry. That's not necessarily my good
side, you know, don't like people seeing that.
TRAVIS: You know, a great place to start with
apologies is to mention the stuff you just said.
MARISHA: That I'm not good at apologies?
TRAVIS: No, after that, right.
MARISHA: I got a little too aggressive?
TRAVIS: One.
MARISHA: And I have a bad side.
TRAVIS: Dos.
MARISHA: And I shouldn't have done it.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's a really good apology.
MARISHA: Is that pretty good?
TRAVIS: Yeah. However, right? Be genuine. Don't be
embarrassed to apologize. It takes a big person to
apologize for something. Little people are the
ones that make mistakes and just let them go.
MARISHA: Oh, like Nott? A little person.
TRAVIS: No, like small on the inside.
MARISHA: Right, like in your soul.
TRAVIS: That's big of you.
MARISHA: It's, you know, I want to try, I guess.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I think he deserves that. He's been
good to us.
MARISHA: Yeah, I think so.
TRAVIS: All right.
MARISHA: Hopefully it goes well.
TRAVIS: I think it will. You can actually leave
the smile out of it this time, just to be clear.
MARISHA: Oh, okay. Not like: I'm sorry!
TRAVIS: No, that's going to set the tone in a real
weird way. There's a thing called sarcasm that you
ride a line with sometimes.
MARISHA: Okay, that's good to know.
MATT: All right, the rest of you find yourselves
to sleep, or is there anything else you wish to do
before the night's done? Any order of taking
watch, or are you all just resting under the
protection of Caleb's silver thread?
TRAVIS: No. Beau and I are up first.
LAURA: I'll do second.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Second as well.
MATT: We'll say that was for your first watch.
While you guys are having that conversation, one
of you roll with advantage on your perception
check, or you can both roll separately, your call.
MARISHA: Let's roll separately. Oof, terrible.
TRAVIS: Yep. Five.
MARISHA: Five.
MATT: Oh, leave him hanging.
LAURA: Her perception is low, you wouldn't see the
high five.
MATT: That's true.
MARISHA: Five? Oh five!
MATT: Good in-character moment there.
As you guys are finishing your conversation,
your watch comes to an end without incident.
TRAVIS: With an arrow in our throat? I didn't
see-- (choking)
MATT: You rest so easily with the blood leaking
out. You finish your watch, you wake up Nott and
Jester, and you guys take on your second watch. Do
you want to both make a roll for perception or--
LAURA: Let's roll separately!
MATT: Okay! Worked out great last time.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: That's a four.
LAURA: Oh no. I think it's 12 for me.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: High roll!
MATT: While you guys are taking some time, concentrating
on listening out for anything and feeling pretty
solid in your ability to maintain vigil across
this dark, eerie night in the center of this
hollow tree, you don't hear or see a goddamned
thing. But a little twinkle hits your ears, Caleb.
SAM: Oh shit!
MATT: As suddenly something down below, by
the pool on the opposite end of that kidney-shaped
interior cavern, seems to go off.
LIAM: I'm awake?
MATT: Yes, you come to consciousness.
LIAM: They're awake?
MATT: They are awake.
LIAM: Ah, fish, Nott.
SAM: No, we're on watch. We haven't seen anything,
it's just a dream.
LIAM: No, down below, in my--
LAURA: In the cavern? In the tunnel?
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: What should we do? Should we wake everyone
up?
SAM: We should wake everyone up!
LIAM: Wake up!
MARISHA: Ow!
LAURA: Wake up!
SAM: Fjord! (cawing)
TRAVIS: What, what?
SAM: Don't wake up Kiri, though. She deserves a
really nice night's sleep.
LAURA: She really does, let her sleep.
MATT: She's all curled up in the corner, like
(trilling) with her feathers all poofed up.
SAM: I'm going to give her my blanket.
LIAM: I'm going to send Frumpkin to crawl down and
get a look.
MATT: Okay, roll a stealth check for Frumpkin.
LAURA: Does Frumpkin fall down the tunnel, then?
MATT: Cats can do some pretty crazy shit.
LIAM: It's fine. Good, four.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin drops down onto the soft and
makes it around. Focusing on it, you can see that
another merrow has emerged into that chamber and--
nope.
LAURA: We didn't hide the bodies.
MATT: Goes around and sees the bodies there lying
in the middle of the space. He (growls).
LIAM: Oh, we left the corpses out.
LAURA: Oops.
MATT: He goes and drags him back a little bit,
begins rifling through whatever it might have had,
and looks over right at Frumpkin. Grabs the
trident spear and throws it.
LAURA: Did you snap him out?
LIAM: I don't know.
MATT: You weren't close enough to do that, I don't
think.
LIAM: No? 100 feet.
MATT: 100 feet to snap him back, or is it
shorter than that? Double-check on that real fast.
LAURA: Oh, again, again!
TALIESIN: Kitten kebab.
SAM: I remember saying that we should hide the
corpses and Cali actually said, "Don't do it,
"there's no point to it." So we should blame Cali.
LAURA: I don't remember Cali saying that.
SAM: That's what Cali said.
LIAM: I actually have no memory of anything on
range for bamfing in and out, but I will defer to
you because you're my DM.
MATT: "As an action, you can temporarily dismiss
your familiar." It doesn't say range. "You can
"cause it to reappear within 30 feet of you."
That's what I forgot. So you can do that. The last
thing you see, briefly, before Frumpkin vanishes,
is this three-pronged trident rocking through the
darkness, with what faint little bit of visibility
that Frumpkin has, not even being able to see much
down there in the darkness before disappearing.
LIAM: Ja, there is one down there right now and
he tried to kill my cat.
LAURA: Should we go down there or should we stay up here?
TRAVIS: Hit the wall against the hole, right?
We'll take either side of it, either flank.
SAM: Why don't we just blow up the hole?
TRAVIS: No, because we still want to go down
there.
SAM: Why do we want to go down there? There's
crazy people down there!
LAURA: Nott, shut up! Because there's treasure and
stuff.
SAM: You could just say, "Be quiet."
LAURA: Nott, please be quiet.
SAM: Thank you.
TRAVIS: Molly, I want you to get right on the edge
of the hole and keep an eye down the shaft.
MATT: (chirping) (like Jester) "Go fuck
yourself."
LAURA: Oh, I love her!
SAM: We woke her up, though, but it was cute.
LAURA: Kiri, (shushing).
LIAM: Am I able to prepare Magic Missile like a
held spell for a fish head popping out of the hole?
MATT: Holding your action, if it comes back
around, the spell is either fizzled or released.
So you can wait for something and then cast the
spell as an action.
LIAM: But I'd lose the slot if I held the--
MATT: If you ended up holding it for a few minutes,
yes, because the idea is that you're casting the
spell and then holding onto that last piece of the
incantation.
LIAM: I won't do that, then, but I will watch the
hole.
SAM: Is our rope still dangling down the hole?
MATT: No, you pulled the rope up.
LAURA: I'm going to hold Sacred Flame because it's
a cantrip.
TALIESIN: I'm going to activate one sword, hold it
behind my back, sit at the edge, and wait to give
a swing. See if anything is going to pop up.
TRAVIS: Let it come all the way up if it does.
SAM: If it comes up, should we grab it?
TRAVIS: Grapple it, fall flat, kill it quietly.
MATT: You guys take a moment in silence.
LAURA: It might be going back and telling its
friends, though, and they're all going to come back.
MARISHA: You think those guys have strong family
bonds?
LAURA: Probably.
MATT: Two minutes pass. Three minutes pass.
LAURA: Oh no. What if it digs up a hole in another
area, you guys?
MATT: Then you hear this ever-so-faint grinding of
root on scale. This merrow sentinel slides,
slithering like a snake out of the curtain of
roots that currently cover that one portion of the
wall that leads further beneath the safe house.
All of you guys take a surprise round. As soon as
it emerges to go ahead and inspect, it's like,
"Huh?"
TRAVIS: It came up the tunnel that was already
there?
MATT: Yeah. It emerged and jack-in-the-boxed out
towards you.
LAURA: Dex save of 15.
MATT: That is a four, nope!
LAURA: Ten radiant damage.
MATT: Ten radiant damage. Good to know.
SAM: I fired and missed with a natural one.
MATT: Oh, buddy. (whoosh) Nothing.
TALIESIN: Just a standard attack, or standard and
bonus?
MATT: For the purpose of it all happening at once,
just one attack.
TALIESIN: Two strikes or one strike?
MATT: Two strikes. It's whatever your attack
action is.
TALIESIN: That's awful. 11?
MATT: Misses.
TALIESIN: And an eight.
MATT: Both miss. Unfortunately, because you guys
don't have any light in here, when it emerges,
you're all swinging in the darkness hoping to hit
it in the direction of where it is.
LIAM: I have no lights up, so I should be at
disadvantage, right?
MATT: You would be, yes.
LIAM: I'm going to roll again. What does that say?
MATT: Is this Magic Missile?
LIAM: No, I had to Fire Bolt so it wouldn't matter
how long I held it. My lower is a 12.
MATT: That misses.
MARISHA: I rolled a 20 total. That's 11 damage. My
second attack missed.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: I did Eldritch Blast and a 20 and a 24.
MATT: Both hit. Roll damage.
TRAVIS: Ten and a nine. 19 points of Eldritch
Blast.
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: I rolled a ten, total.
MATT: On your first attack?
ASHLEY: Second attack. There we go. That's a 21.
TALIESIN: Someone hit something. Yay.
LAURA: You should really separate out your dice,
Ashley.
ASHLEY: I know it's making you crazy.
TRAVIS: Monstrous or--?
MATT: They are considered monstrosities, so
consider that for any damage you deal to them with
your sword.
TRAVIS: I will.
MATT: You're not raging, so you don't have the
plus two. Nor do you have your--
ASHLEY: Path of Divine.
MATT: Correct, because you're not raging.
ASHLEY: It's ten.
MATT: That's enough. Even with all of your misses,
you watch as it emerges, and then (multiple impacts)
and slumps. Yeah, as you grab it, it
starts sliding back into the tunnel. You grab and
lift him-- he's heavy as shit-- and you all
together manage to slip it into and onto the floor.
LIAM: I just watched all that.
TALIESIN: I'm staying on guard in case anything
else comes through.
MATT: Fair enough.
TRAVIS: Yeah, same.
MATT: What little bit of light you have in the
chamber right now is a little faint, radiant glow
from the sword that Molly currently has that is
like candlelight, if anything.
LIAM: I'm going to pull out a rag and do my veiled
lantern thing with Dancing Lights.
LAURA: You should probably put another one of
those things up, Caleb.
LIAM: Put one of what things up?
LAURA: Another alarm!
LIAM: Down there? You want me to go down there?
ASHLEY: Do you want me to go with you?
TRAVIS: Yeah, you and Yasha go.
ASHLEY: Okay, let's go.
SAM and LAURA: No!
LIAM: I'm going to send Frumpkin down again.
MATT: Frumpkin emerges, you send Frumpkin back
down. Make a stealth check for Frumpkin.
LIAM: Come on, Frumpy. Nine.
TRAVIS: Nein!
MATT: The loudest cat you've ever heard. Frumpkin
is the neighborhood cat in heat at this point. He
makes his way down through the tunnel. Make a
perception check with disadvantage for Frumpkin
because he's now coming around the edge.
LIAM: Someone told me that cats have advantage on
perception. Are they full of shit? You're my DM.
Would it cancel out, is why I'm asking?
MATT: Would it cancel out? I would ask you to keep
the stats of your cat on you for future reference.
LIAM: I will.
MATT: They have advantage on wisdom perception
checks that rely on smell. I'd say sure.
LIAM: So cancel?
MATT: Yeah, it'll cancel out, so a straight roll.
LAURA: And it's a fish. Cats are really perceptive
when it comes to fish.
LIAM: That's pretty good. Perception, 19.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin heads on down, keeps an eye
out on that space, does a little pass. No sign of
any other emerging or present merrow.
TALIESIN: Instead of putting another wire down
there, you could leave Frumpkin down there, and he
can alert us if there's any problem.
TRAVIS: But he's got to stay awake for it.
LIAM: He could watch, but the alarm is just as
good. It's automatic, gets me up, Frumpkin can
sleep. After you.
SAM: You're going down there?
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: By yourselves?
LAURA: With Yasha.
ASHLEY: With me.
SAM: Take good care of him.
ASHLEY: I will.
TALIESIN: If we hear anything, we're going to
charge down there. They'll be fine.
SAM: He can't make it without you.
ASHLEY: I know.
SAM: He will not come back alive.
ASHLEY: I know. I will take care of him as best as
I can. Even better than that, I will take care of
him. I promise you, he will not die.
SAM: He will have no chance of survival. Okay.
MATT: Slowly lowering the rope back down the
tunnel, which one of you is taking point on
climbing down?
ASHLEY: I will go first.
MATT: You make your way down, the rope aiding you
in the process. You get to the bottom, you as
well. I'd like you both to roll stealth checks,
please, as you emerge in the lower cavern.
LIAM: 12.
ASHLEY: 13.
MATT: You two gingerly step your way around the
edge, back to the site you can see of the three
corpses of the merrow there in the center of the
opposite side of the cavern.
LIAM: I have my hand on Yasha's enormous, rippling
shoulder.
MATT: As you make your way around to the other
pool, you can see the water, disturbed relatively
recently, isn't perfectly still, but it's nearing
there. It's coming to rest. No sign of anything
down there.
ASHLEY: Okay, do your shit.
LIAM: I need about ten minutes. In the dark, I
pull out the thread and I start doing the thing.
ASHLEY: Make it a little faster than ten if you
can.
LIAM: I can't do that, but I will do that.
MATT: Five minutes go by.
SAM: I'm going to cast Message. Are you still
alive? You can reply to this message.
TALIESIN: Mention that they should clean up the
bodies.
SAM: Oh, yeah. While Yasha's waiting, she can
clean up the bodies. You can reply to this message.
ASHLEY: I will start to move the bodies.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Stealthily.
LIAM: We'll say that I said that out loud to her.
ASHLEY: Yes. What did you say?
LIAM: Nott had a wonderful idea for you to pick up
all of the dead things.
MATT: Yasha, you begin to drag the bodies back
into the central pool. They sink.
ASHLEY: Flow in.
MATT: All right. You complete the latter half of it.
Okay. You finish the spell, you sense the arcane,
unseen net of the alarm click in, and it's prepared
and set to keep watch.
LIAM: Let's get the shit out of here.
LAURA: (whispering) Run away!
ASHLEY: Let's go.
MATT: You guys make your way back, climb back up
the rope, and make your way into the interior of
the tree, seemingly without incident.
ASHLEY: Seemingly?
LAURA: I'm going back to sleep, you guys. I need
to get my spells back.
ASHLEY: I'll take the next watch since I'm awake.
MATT: Yasha takes final watch. Go ahead and roll a
perception check for me.
LIAM: I'm freaked out, so I'm going to stay up
with Yasha.
MATT: Both of you guys make perception checks for
me, please.
LIAM: Perception, 11.
SAM: (singing) Run away, run away!
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: As you guys complete the third watch for the
evening, you sense the morning come as the
temperature, which previously had gotten quite
chilled, is beginning to rise a bit, though now
you can still see your breath in the air. A faint
bit of bluish light begins to appear at the outer
edges of the driftwood piece that is wedged in the
doorway to make it look flush with the rest of the
exterior bark. You all complete a long rest. You
have your abilities back, your hit points full,
and you are ready to continue.
LIAM: Could I back up one hour and ask Yasha a
quick question?
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: This is a small group for you, you traveled
with the circus.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LIAM: This is a big group for me.
ASHLEY: It is?
LIAM: Do you have any advice?
ASHLEY: Well, I mean--
LIAM: You seem awkward like me.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LIAM: But you made it work with a lot of people.
ASHLEY: Well, if someone has a conversation with
me, I will talk to them.
LIAM: I've tried that too, and it goes horribly.
ASHLEY: No, I don't think it goes as bad as you
think.
LIAM: I think it goes pretty bad.
ASHLEY: I mean, yes, sometimes I think it's been
pretty bad even for me sometimes, watching you.
But that doesn't mean-- there's always room for
improvement--
LIAM: I'm confused, did you have advice?
ASHLEY: I don't think I'm good at giving advice,
but just talk to people if they talk to you, and
be nice, you know. Eat with your mouth closed,
wash your hands.
LIAM: I start writing these things down.
TRAVIS: Oh my god.
ASHLEY: Wash your hair when you can, that's fine.
LIAM: It just rained though. This is the cleanest
I've been in weeks.
ASHLEY: (dubious noise) I feel like you're
still-- how do you stay dirty all the time?
LIAM: Most of the time I'm trying to. People
don't pay attention to beggars so much.
ASHLEY: So you don't want people to pay attention
to you.
LIAM: Yeah, in general.
ASHLEY: I get that. I feel that way, but I'm hard
to miss. I don't mean that in a, "Woo, I'm hard to miss."
LIAM: You're as big as a giant barn, you are hard
to miss.
ASHLEY: Yeah. Well, I--
LIAM: Do you know what I miss?
ASHLEY: What?
LIAM: Shaving.
ASHLEY: I could shave you right now with my
sword.
TRAVIS: (quietly) Yes!
ASHLEY: I've done it before, I like to not have
hair on my arms. This is what I do. I really think
that cleanliness and hygiene is very important.
LIAM: One thing that I have realized today is that
I need to work on my interpersonal skills and
friendship making. So try not to cut up my face,
okay?
ASHLEY: Okay, do you just want a trim? Is there a
certain look you want?
LIAM: No, leave my hair on my head, but I have not
had a clean-shaven face in a long time.
ASHLEY: Do you want it all gone, or you just
want--?
LIAM: No, you can take it all.
ASHLEY: It's easier to do that.
LIAM: You can crush a person, but I'm not quite
sure how dexterous you are, so I don't want any
fancy tricks.
ASHLEY: I won't. I'm going to hold it like this,
and then the blade-- this is how I do it. I hold
it, and then I whoosh, you know?
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: This is your five-foot greatsword?
(laughter)
ASHLEY: So sit here.
LIAM: Should I lie on the ground?
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, lie down. I've never done it like
that, but yeah, lie down.
LIAM: Have you done this before?
ASHLEY: I have done this before.
LIAM: With that?
ASHLEY: Not with this, something a little
smaller.
LIAM: I lie on the floor.
MATT: Okay. In the early dawn hours of the new
day, as the blue begins to slowly become brighter
in the distance--
LIAM: Wait! This means we are friends.
ASHLEY: Yes.
LIAM: (inhales)
ASHLEY: You don't have to hold your breath because
it will take a very long time and you'll pass
out.
LIAM: That might be better.
ASHLEY: You need to relax, breathe in, breathe
out. Okay, I got it. Here we go.
MATT: I would like you to roll a dexterity check,
please. Take advantage because he's not moving.
LIAM: Four globules of light rise up around you as
you begin to shave.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: Maybe it's the tensile strength of her arm
muscles, but such a large instrument seems
unexpectedly delicate across the features of your
face. It's not a complete shave, there are areas
that get missed because it's not a very fine
implement, but for the most part, the stubble gets
closer to your face. There are a few sections that
are unevenly smooth, but it's an improvement from
where it was before. It's as good a shave you can
get with a greatsword. Manages to avoid nicking
any major arteries, and as you complete your work,
you're proud of it, the sweat on your brow-- Caleb
has no idea of how it looks other than you
reaching up and touching your chin as it finishes.
The rest of you come to consciousness.
LAURA: Are you killing Caleb?!
ASHLEY: No, I was giving him a shave.
LAURA: Oh. Whoa!
MARISHA: Wow.
SAM: It's much better.
LAURA: You have a little thing! You have a little
dimple on your chin! That's the cutest! I didn't
know.
TRAVIS: So boyish.
MARISHA: Yeah, you almost look innocent.
SAM: It looks good!
LIAM: Caleb's inner monologue is: I want to
shrivel up and die.
TRAVIS: Nice work, Yasha.
ASHLEY: You know, if anyone else-- none of you--
SAM: Or Jester might want a bikini.
LAURA: Maybe soon, yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, I've done it before.
TALIESIN: This I can confirm.
LAURA: Should we gear up and head down and kill a
bunch of fish people?
TRAVIS: Indeed.
LAURA: All right.
LIAM: I take a brief moment with the dodecahedron
before handing the bag back to Jester.
LAURA: So you don't forget.
LIAM: I'll forget.
TRAVIS: Take the rope, we start lowering it down
there.
LAURA: Stealthily.
SAM: We're going down there? Again?
TRAVIS: Yep.
LAURA: Yeah, we're killing everything.
TALIESIN: On the way down, I smack Caleb a bit on
the back and say: Well done, she likes you! And
head down.
LAURA: Should I cast Pass without a Trace on us
and be stealthier?
TRAVIS: I think right before we go under the water
we should.
SAM: Under the water?
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, this is an amphibious assault.
SAM: How many v's are in that word?
ASHLEY: What did you say?
TRAVIS: Like five.
TALIESIN: Amvivious.
TRAVIS: Amphibious. Yeah, there's a sea "anenome"
under there as well.
SAM: I don't do well with water. I don't think I
can go down there. Why don't I stay watch?
TRAVIS: Why aren't you good in water?
SAM: I don't like water.
TRAVIS: You can hold your breath, right?
SAM: Probably.
LAURA: What if I hold onto you and push you
along?
TALIESIN: Are you going to be all right with Caleb
going without you?
MARISHA: Remember our swimming lesson?
SAM: I don't like it, though.
TRAVIS: Listen, when we get down there, I'm going
to swim a rope under the water to where we're
going. It's going to be like a guide line, so
whoever you ride with can pull on the rope and
you'll just hang on.
LIAM: It's a bad idea for you to stay. We would
need you.
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: Oh Kiri.
MATT: Pulls the knife out. (like Fjord) "It's an
amphibious assault."
TRAVIS: Fuck you, Kiri.
SAM: Taking the piss.
LAURA: Where should we leave Kiri for this? We
can't bring her over with us.
SAM: I'll stay with Kiri. You guys can go, and I
can stay with Kiri.
ASHLEY: I don't like that idea.
LAURA: We need you, Nott.
SAM: I'm not good at many things.
LAURA: Yeah you are! You can shoot things. And you
can sneak around.
LIAM: You're not very good at finding traps, but
everything else you're quite good at.
ASHLEY: Then what are we going to do with Kiri?
MARISHA: She can't go with us.
TRAVIS: No, she can't. We could leave her in here
with you if you want, but if you see trouble
you're going to have to get in that water and come
across.
SAM: (groans)
TRAVIS: Yep.
TRAVIS: Yep. One or the other.
MATT: (like Jester) "Yes, I'm very sweet."
SAM: I'll stay with Kiri, and if there's trouble,
we'll see what happens.
LAURA: Kiri, you stay here with Nott, then, okay?
TALIESIN: We're going to be one down, then.
TRAVIS: All right, I'll take the other 50-foot
section of rope and I'll start wading into the
water, and I'll take a swim back the way I went.
LAURA: Wait, wait! Pass Without a Trace.
TRAVIS: (high-pitched sound)
MATT: All right, so Pass Without a Trace.
LAURA: Yes.
TALIESIN: Is that the sound of Pass Without a
Trace?
TRAVIS: It's like Aqua Velva.
TALIESIN: Like Ed Wynn getting tickled.
MATT: It's true.
TALIESIN: Oh my!
MATT: Pass Without a Trace. What's the range on
that?
LAURA: 30 feet. So it's not going to to be for a
very long time. But--
TRAVIS: What do you mean?
LAURA: Well it's only 30 feet in front of-- around
me.
MATT: So you may want to go next.
LAURA: You'll go away-- huh?
MATT: You may want to go next then if you want
that to affect other people.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Don't worry about me. I'm just swimming
over there and coming back. And then we can cast it.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: It's a guideline.
MATT: You, for the moment, wade into it and
(burbling). You guys watch as Fjord, once again,
disappears beneath the surface of the water. Now
with the confidence of knowing that there is a
breaking point and air ahead, that fear doesn't
creep up into your brain and you rush for it.
Making your way through, make an athletics check.
TRAVIS: 12.
MATT: 12, okay. You manage to find it through, and
then come up quietly, just--
TRAVIS: Apocalypse Now.
MATT: Yeah, Apocalypse Now and/or The Descent. You
slowly emerge from the water.
LAURA: Ugh, The Descent. Now it makes me want to
swim through that little tunnel even less!
MATT: Yeah!
MARISHA: So Descent-y, you guys!
MATT: Glancing up, your range of darkvision is 30
feet or 60 feet?
TRAVIS: 60 feet.
MATT: 60 feet, okay.
TRAVIS: Where is that? Class features--
MATT: Racial features, it should say.
TRAVIS: Racial traits. Darkvision. 60 feet.
MATT: 60 feet, great. That gives you enough
perspective for now as you come up and look. You
can see this chamber, and you got a brief glance
at it before. Most of it is natural rock, but
there are elements of it that look like it was
once an old bit of mason architecture. You can see
edges where there are actual stones stacked and
placed. Walls that have seemingly been partially
reclaimed through the ages. You can see two large
central pillars where stalagmite and stalactite
met eventually and created a structure in the
center. A large portion of the floor is submerged
in water, and you see different paths and avenues
of it that curve off and vanish. Probably openings
to other tunnels beneath. The pool you're in right
there, looking up you can see there's that weird
set of natural stairs that step up in front. You
can see four of these merrow creatures, two of
which are in a conversation off to the left, two
that are currently rummaging through what looks to
be piles of things that have been pulled up and
placed toward the top of the stair. You can hear the
clinking of metal and things falling and tumbling
down the stairs. You see a fifth figure that's at
the outskirts of your visual range that's
currently faced away and looking at whatever's on
the other side of that upward pillar. But nobody
else seems to have noticed you emerging at this
point. You haven't made any shifting or movement.
TRAVIS: Do they have an eyeline on me if they
were to look over this way? Could they see my head
above the water?
MATT: It's possible if they were looking carefully
for you. You don't know how far their darkvision
extends.
TRAVIS: Can I wade forward and look for any stones
or pillars that I might be able to throw the rope
around and tie a knot on?
MATT: Looking around you can see there are small
mounds of various minerals that have long dripped
from the ceiling from condensation and various
water flows that have come through this interior
cavern and built this hard, rocky platform that's
emerging just outside of where the pool ends. So
you can bring the rope around and affix it to
that. Make a stealth check as you do so, please.
TRAVIS: That's a two.
SAM: Pass Without a Trace.
LAURA: Well no. He didn't take it. More than 30
feet away from me, right? He's more than 30 feet
away from me.
MATT: He is, yes.
LAURA: I should have given him Blessing of the
Trickster. Oh no!
TRAVIS: Yep! That's amazing.
MATT: That's a natural one. You lucky son of a
bitch! Through whatever grace your patron has
granted upon you--
TRAVIS: I'm in the water, man.
MATT: The merrow are too distracted with whatever
they are in the process of doing to notice you
slip and hit an elbow, send a pebble falling. You
get low and finish tying it off. They don't notice.
TRAVIS: Okay, great. I'll give it a gentle tug. Does
it seem like the structure moves at all?
MATT: No. It seems pretty solid.
TRAVIS: I'll take a deep breath and I'll use it to
pull myself chest up towards the surface.
MATT: Easy enough. So after a few moments, Fjord
emerges back where you guys are waiting.
LAURA: Hey, you made it!
TRAVIS: Yeah. Still five of them. I tied it off.
Everybody should be able to pull their way across
no problem. But we got to be ready to rock when we
get in there. They're a little distracted.
MARISHA: Are we going to try and wait in the water
and ambush as we go?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Or distract away from us and then go.
TRAVIS: Or if we want we could cause a commotion
and have them come through the water at us and use
the hole as a funnel.
MARISHA: As a funnel? Might not be a bad idea.
TRAVIS: Thoughts?
LAURA: That might be smarter, and then you could
fight with us, Nott, for a while at least.
SAM: I mean, I don't like fighting, but sure.
LAURA: You're so good at it, Nott!
ASHLEY: Someone's going to have to go make a
distraction and then make it back.
MARISHA: And I bet those things are pretty good
swimmers.
TALIESIN: Super fast in the water. I bet they're
really fast in the water.
SAM: We could tie the rope-- oh, we can't tie the
rope to you, because now it's tied on the other side.
TRAVIS: I'm a very fast swimmer.
MARISHA: But faster than fish?
TRAVIS: I think it's 60 feet, actually, is my
swimming speed with this damn Mariner's armor.
Ignore what I said.
LAURA: Your regular swimming speed.
TRAVIS: Regular speed, yeah.
(laughter)
MATT: Your swim speed is half your movement.
TRAVIS: Well then yeah, it's 30 feet.
MATT: 15 feet.
TRAVIS: Well with it, it's my normal walking
speed.
MATT: Oh right, with that it is, yes.
SAM: So you're a fast swimmer.
LAURA: So yeah, that's pretty good.
TALIESIN: But probably not as fast as they are.
TRAVIS: Nah, could I guesstimate how far it was
from entrance to portal? Where the rope is?
MATT: From where you are to the-- make a survival
check.
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13. Best you could estimate, it's close to
40 or so feet.
LIAM: How long has he been gone for?
TRAVIS: I'm back.
MATT: He's back.
LIAM: Oh, you're in here talking about what was
there.
LAURA: What if we just made a lot of noise in
here?
TALIESIN: I'm of the opinion that the problem with
this bottleneck is we don't know what they are
doing on the other side. It would be easier to
assess what's coming and make sure that they
can't-- if we take care of everything there, then
we can assess what's there and they can't prepare
or get more together. Have time to--
TRAVIS: So you want to head over there?
TALIESIN: I feel like over there is the way to
go.
TRAVIS: Okay. I see the validity in that
argument.
LAURA: I'll get in the water.
TRAVIS: Pass Without a Trace first?
LAURA: Well yeah!
TRAVIS: Okay!
TALIESIN: We'll stay together in a group.
LAURA: How long did you have to hold your breath
for, Fjord?
TRAVIS: I don't know. About 45, 50 seconds.
LAURA: Easy peasy lemon squeezy. Pass Without a
Trace.
MATT: Coming back on the rope, it's a lot easier.
Your first dive down took a while to feel your way through.
LIAM: I was distracted. I was thinking about my
books. I don't want them to get harmed. Your bag
is probably water resistant, yeah?
LAURA: I don't know, but we can try it. Give me
your books, Caleb. Give me the books.
ASHLEY: Do you want to leave them with Nott?
LIAM: I do want to leave them with Nott. I'm going
to unharness the--
SAM: Can you still cast spells?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Oh, okay.
TALIESIN: I'll leave my coat here. I'm not
dragging that into the water.
LIAM: If you come after us, would you please hide
them under a stone or something?
SAM: Sure.
TRAVIS: How many books you got there?
LIAM: Two.
TALIESIN: That's a very nice sling thing. It'd be
a shame if anything happened to it. Are you sure
you're not coming?
SAM: My duty is to take care of Kiri. Right?
MATT: (chirping)
TRAVIS: Shall we, Pass Without a Trace?
LAURA: I did it already!
TRAVIS: Shit balls ass! Let's do it.
LAURA: Lasts for an hour, though, so it's okay.
MATT: Kiri leans into you. "This means we are
friends."
LAURA: She heard!
MATT: She woke up early.
SAM: Sounds like Caleb. Wow.
ASHLEY: Wait, that was-- okay.
MARISHA: She's going to rattle off some secrets.
TRAVIS: Kiri's got to die. Thousands of artists
are like (gasping).
LAURA: Who's first? Are you going back through
first?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll go first.
LAURA: Okay. I'll go second. People should follow
quickly behind me because you've got to stay
within 30 feet of me.
TALIESIN: One quick attack, or do we try and take
them out quietly? I assume-- well, we'll take a
look at what it is.
TRAVIS: Distract and attack.
LAURA: So we're doing the distract? But then they
know somebody's there! If we just come out of the
water and attack, we get a sneak attack.
TRAVIS: If they don't see us.
TALIESIN: If they don't see us, then we get the
sneak attack. And if they do--
LAURA: Just go for it!
TALIESIN: We'll see what we see.
TRAVIS: As I go in the water, I'm going to go about
halfway and then stop and tread and make sure that
everybody gets along the rope fine.
MATT: Okay, all right. You're casting Pass Without
a Trace first? All right. You finish casting the
spell. The shadows, already super dark in here
with almost no light source beyond what Caleb's
providing, they coalesce around you and the rest
of the members of the team as you all dive into
the pool of water. It's black.
LAURA: Caleb, Blessing of the Trickster on the way
through.
MATT: To Caleb? Okay. Blessing of the Trickster on
you, that's advantage on your stealth checks.
I need everybody, including Fjord, to roll a
stealth check, please. Plus ten to your stealth score.
MARISHA: Natural 20!
MATT: They rolled really high.
TALIESIN: 16.
TRAVIS: Thank god for that Pass Without a Trace. 19.
MARISHA: 37.
SAM: Jesus!
LIAM: Yeah, girl! Yeah!
MATT: That's some Vax numbers right there!
LIAM: Zweiundzwanzig. 22.
LAURA: Oh, 16. Oh, no! 18!
TALIESIN and ASHLEY: 16.
LIAM: Yeah. That's good, Ashley.
MARISHA: I am one with the water.
MATT: You guys all quickly emerge from the water
below, your eyes focusing. There is no light
source in this chamber. So for those of you-- you
have your darkvision on. You guys all have
darkvision, I am pretty sure, except for you,
Caleb. So you're relying on the rest of them to
give any sort of presence--
LIAM: Listening to their footfalls.
MATT: Yeah, so.
TALIESIN: I am so excited.
LIAM: So pretty!
LAURA: Wow! Where are we?
ASHLEY: Wow wowie wow!
SAM: What is happening? Why is there a remote
control?
LAURA: Oh, he's putting water effects on it! Shut
up!
SAM: Ooh, it just got blue!
LAURA: Oh my gosh!
MATT: I would need you guys to place yourselves
amongst this pool.
MARISHA: There it goes!
LIAM: Here comes the smoke!
TRAVIS: Oh shit, we got smoke!
LAURA: We've never had smoke before!
TALIESIN: I didn't think I'd enjoy this quite so
soon.
MATT: Kiri and Nott exist on the outskirts.
ASHLEY: This is Dungeons &amp; Dragons!
MATT: As you guys glance up, the first thing you
see is there is one merrow right there who's
currently talking and discussing with one right
here.
LIAM: This is wrong. This is right.
MATT: Place yourselves where you want to be.
LIAM: That's still wrong, that's right.
MATT: There's one at the base of this, right
there. Up at the top, facing away, is the one that
you had seen at the top of the stairs, Fjord.
TRAVIS: That's the one that was distracted.
MATT: As you guys all emerge headfirst from the
water, everybody gets a surprise round except for
Yasha and Molly, unfortunately. You two did not
roll high enough to beat the stealth.
TRAVIS: They rolled really high.
MATT: They rolled pretty high. Everyone roll
initiative, but you guys will be out of this round.
LIAM: Don't fuck me, Colville. You fucked me,
Colville.
TALIESIN: Do we want to try and do a clockwise
attack? Knock them out as we go?
LAURA: Should we try to do a distraction?
MATT: 25 to 20?
ASHLEY: 21.
TRAVIS: Yo, what's up?
ASHLEY: Might be a first.
MATT: I know. 20 to 15?
TRAVIS: 20 to 15?
LAURA: Oh Jesus.
TRAVIS: Oh fuck. Oh shit.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: 15 to ten?
MARISHA: 12.
TRAVIS: What? Oh my god, you guys.
SAM: Oh no. Single digits and 21.
ASHLEY: That's a first.
MATT: Ten to five?
TALIESIN: Seven.
LAURA: Eight.
LIAM: Sechs.
MATT: Okay, hold on.
TRAVIS: Jester.
TALIESIN: Molly, Caleb.
TRAVIS: Caleb, Molly.
SAM: What about you, Fjord?
TRAVIS: I'm a big fat three.
ALL: Ooh!
LAURA: Oh my lord.
MATT: Nott, you're not engaging? Just for the sake
of it.
SAM: One.
MATT: Wow, guys.
SAM: I have a plus four to initiative, so I guess
that's five.
MATT: That's still better than Fjord.
SAM: My natural one beats yours.
MATT: You all emerge from it. Yasha, you would be
first, but your stealth, you did not surprise the
individuals from this round point. He doesn't
notice you guys, that's a seven. Beau, you're up first.
MARISHA: Wow, okay. Beau's up first. Are we just
going to go for these guys? We're not going to do
some sort of distraction?
TRAVIS: We got the surprise round, so it's fine.
This is the surprise round.
MATT: Now that you're getting a better view of
this, you can see a low mist is pouring down the
stairs and is filling the space around them.
MARISHA: This is all water, I'm assuming, in the
middle?
MATT: All of this is water, yeah.
TRAVIS: Okay, good. It's acid.
MARISHA: Can I move? I'm going to go for this
guy.
MATT: (counting) Easy enough. You get right to
him.
MARISHA: Is there a way I can jump across and try
and fight him from over here? Do I have enough?
MATT: You'll splash in the water. You won't make
it all the way to the opposite side, or you may,
but he'll get an attack of opportunity on you as
you dart out of his melee range.
MARISHA: Okay, no. I'm going to try and do some
KGB-level shit. I'm going to do a quick kidney
punch and try and go for the temple.
LIAM: Krav Maga!
SAM: And influence the election.
MATT: Actually, if you wanted to jump across, I
will say because he's surprised, and he isn't
aware that you're there quite yet, if you want to
leap across, make an acrobatics check, if you
still wanted to try and do so. You will land in
the water. You'll be about waist-high in the
water, if not more.
MARISHA: No, I'll be good. This is regular
attacks, right?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: First attack. That was good. 20?
MATT: 20 hits.
MARISHA: Second attack. That's garbage, that's an
eight.
MATT: First one hits.
MARISHA: Eight damage. I'm going to spend a ki and
do Flurry of Blows. Two unarmed strikes. Natural one.
MATT: Nope.
TRAVIS: Man, that thing does not make up its
mind.
MARISHA: No, it does not. 24.
MATT: 24 hits. Roll damage for that fourth
attack.
MARISHA: Four damage. Wait, I rolled the wrong
one. That's much better. Ten damage. I'm going to
spend another ki point and do Stunning Strike. Jab
to the ribs.
MATT: Natural 17. It resists the stun, I'm sorry.
But it's doing damage to it. As you slam into it
again, turns around. It looks like it's surprised
and reeling from the impact of it.
MARISHA: You were supposed to go to sleep.
MATT: Gills flaring angrily towards your face.
Some spittle flies out of its growling mouth. That
finishes your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah. It'll be awesome when that Stunning
Strike works.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Spiritual Weapon right
next to that one that Beau's fighting.
MATT: Right here, or this side?
LAURA: No, in between the two of them. Yeah, right
there.
MATT: Floating in the air.
LAURA: At level three.
MATT: Oh snap, all right. Go make your attack
roll.
LAURA: It's extra big, that's right. It's got more
sparkle to it. It's got more sparkly bits.
TALIESIN: Marshmallow in the center.
LAURA: I'm going to try to attack the one that
Beau is attacking
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
LAURA: That was on 20--
TALIESIN: And then it was like: nope!
LAURA: That is not going to hit.
MATT: Nope, swings wide. However, it has apparated
and is useful in future rounds.
LAURA: He already took some damage, so I'm going
to Toll the Dead on him for my action.
MATT: That is a natural three.
LAURA: He gets hit.
SAM: Tolled.
LAURA, TRAVIS, and MARISHA: He got Tolled.
LAURA: Jesus H. Macy. Seven points of necrotic
damage.
MATT: Seven points of necrotic damage to him, got
it.
SAM: That's pretty good.
MATT: Not too bad. That finish your turn, Jester?
You're going to stay where you are?
LAURA: Yes. I'm going to get out of the water, and
I'm going to go stand next to that thing that's
coming out of the ground. Yeah, that thing.
SAM: The booby-looking thing.
LAURA: Yeah, the booby. The big pile of
poo-looking thing.
MATT: That finishes your go. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Quick question: From the fish guy up at the
top there, if that was the corner of a cube, would
it reach the one down by the lollipop?
MATT: How big is the cube?
LIAM: 40-foot cube, excuse me, sorry. That's
probably not big enough. That's too big, right?
It's too far?
MARISHA: 40 feet's huge.
MATT: Wait, you mean from you?
LIAM: If I were to hit the fish guy at the top and
make that the corner of a cube and go this way, it
would probably only get two of them, right?
MATT: Possibly.
LIAM: Forget it. I'm going to cast Haste on
Mollymauk.
LAURA: Would I have had enough movement to get
behind the big poo pile?
MATT: You would.
LIAM: I can't see. It's dark, I'm blind. It's the
safer bet, to aid my friend on the next turn.
MATT: For you, Molly. That's to signify your
Haste. Keep that in mind.
LIAM: You have just been Hasted, and I am going to
move along the wall this way away from the enemies
that I think I can detect.
MATT: You're still in the water, thrashing, trying
to make your way to the edge. Molly, you're up,
but you lose this round, because you were not part
of the surprise. You were lagging a little behind,
as Yasha-- best way I can do this quickly, because
they're losing their turn as well. That brings us
to-- Nott isn't even paying attention. Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yep. I'll make my way towards the two on
the left side, as far as my--
MATT: On the edge there?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Oh damn, that's as far as I can get,
huh?
MATT: No, you can go into the water if you want to
go further. You want to get up to him?
TRAVIS: Yeah, melee range.
MATT: You can get melee range. You're in the
water, and you're swimming in the water, but
because of your armor, it doesn't reduce your
attacks, so you're not taking disadvantage on your
attack rolls.
TRAVIS: Nice. I will use Booming Blade in a melee
strike with the Wastehunter falchion against that
fishy fuck.
MATT: Fjord, take your one attack.
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: 14 hits.
TRAVIS: It does? Oh my god, thank you. 1d8,
because I didn't say two-handed. That's 12 points
of damage, plus because it's a monstrosity?
MATT: It is.
TRAVIS: 12 points of damage plus four. That is a
four. 18 points of damage.
MATT: 18 points of damage on that guy.
TRAVIS: With Booming Blade--
MATT: If he moves at all, on his next turn, he
takes an additional 2d8. Good to know.
TRAVIS: Yes sir. With my bonus action, I will Hex
this guy over here.
MATT: This guy there?
TRAVIS: Yes sir.
MATT: He's been Hexed. Does that finish your
turn?
TRAVIS: Yes, it does.
MATT: As you pull back, the energy sparks around,
and there's this weird movement in the water like
it's thrashing, the booming energy keeping that
one merrow locked in place, as the other one, the
Hex coalesces around its chest and holds it.
TRAVIS: I'll give him disadvantage on wisdom.
MATT: Wisdom checks, got it. That ends top of the
round. Now Yasha, you can take your turn. The
ambush round is over.
ASHLEY: I'm going to mosey on up over next to
Beau, and I would like to rage.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
LIAM and ASHLEY: (air horn blaring)
LIAM: From the cavern behind us: (muffled air horn
noises)
ASHLEY: I'm going to pull out my blade and--
SAM: Take the stubble off of it?
ASHLEY: Take an attack. Give it a nice shave. That
is 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
SAM: Come on, Yasha! Come on, Yasha, plan ahead!
ASHLEY: Listen, I know, I'm sorry. Where's the
ones that I really like? There it is. (counting) 19.
MATT: Nice. You rush up next to Beau, cleave down
with the blade. It carves through part of its
torso and it retracts and tries to pull itself
lower in the water to make itself harder to hit.
What are you going to do? You have a second
attack, right?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I have a second attack.
MATT: Go for it.
ASHLEY: That's not going to hit. Eight.
MATT: Eight misses, unfortunately. Next one
swings, and a miss. Now the merrow all go
together, because you guys left a big old gap of
initiative there.
LAURA: Oh no.
TRAVIS: It's after Yasha, right?
MATT: Correct. First part, I'm going to say--
Let's make it fun.
SAM: Yes, let's.
MATT: This guy here is going to take his trident
and chuck it right towards Beau.
TRAVIS: Are these free tridents, or do they also
have that cord that's attached to them?
MARISHA: Like the harpoons?
MATT: They have the cords still attached. That's a
17 to hit.
MARISHA: 17 is my armor class.
MATT: There you go. With that to there, first off,
Beau. As it strikes you in the chest, you take ten
points of piercing damage, and I need you to make
a strength check for me, please.
MARISHA: So good at this. Just a straight check,
or a saving throw?
MATT: A strength check.
MARISHA: 19-- sorry, ten. It looked like a 19
upside down.
MATT: It was a 14. You get pulled through right
next to it there, in the middle of the water. As
you fall to the ground, it's going to attempt to
bite at you. Since you're in the water, outside of
your terrain, I will give it advantage on the
strike, because you're now thrashing water and
swimming, and it's in its own terrain. That'll be
18 to hit. With the bite on you there, you take an
additional eight points of piercing damage. At
that moment, this one here is going to turn around
onto Fjord, and is going to shift this way and
unleash both bite and claw attack against you,
Fjord. 17 to hit?
TRAVIS: That hits; it's my armor class.
MATT: For that claw attack, it's going to be 2d4.
Seven points of piercing damage against you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Okay.
SAM: Did you guys scan the area for Despacito
beasts?
TRAVIS: Seven points of damage.
MATT: It's going to pull back after it finishes
clawing into you. It's going to try and bite down
with its jaws. That's a 19 to hit.
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: You take another seven points of piercing
damage. The one behind there, who sees its friend
digging into Fjord's torso and body, watches as it
finishes its round of strikes and then
under-handed throws its harpoon towards him.
That's another 18 to hit.
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: With that, you take ten points of piercing
damage. I need you to make a strength check. As it
pierces, you grab it, and it manages to careen
into the side of your hip, and it hits bone. You
feel it grind against the inside with the pain.
TRAVIS: That's a 17.
MATT: You beat it. Rolled a 15. So you do not get
pulled. It does not give him his follow-up attack.
However, he's going to move forward to get his
follow-up attack anyway with the rest of his
movement, and is going to attempt to bite you, and
is going to miss. That's a nine.
TRAVIS: Nein!
MATT: He goes to bite and as you pull the harpoon
out, and turn back your shield you bash the side
of its face and it manages to pull back. It scrapes
across its fish-like face, but no impact or
damage. All right, that's going to finish his go.
The one that is right next to you, Yasha, is going
to shift around, not leaving combat with you, but
going behind the pillar to give itself some cover
from anybody who's out in the vicinity. It's going
to attempt to make two strikes against you.
TRAVIS: I didn't-- I need to make Hex checks.
MATT: Yes, you do.
TRAVIS: Oh shit, how many of them? Three?
MATT: Three.
SAM: Ooh!
TRAVIS: At advantage because War Caster, right?
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: Roll higher than a ten.
TRAVIS: What is that, constitution?
MATT: Constitution saving throw.
TRAVIS: Okay. That's a 15. Did 15 work?
MATT: 15 works.
TRAVIS: Nice. Higher than a ten, sorry. That's a
natural 19, that'll do it. And 13-- that's an 18.
All three save.
MATT: All righty, that's good on your end. For
you, Yasha, you didn't use Reckless last turn, right?
ASHLEY: No.
MATT: That's a natural 20 on that first strike
with the claws at you. That is going to be 14
points of piercing damage, reduced to half so you
only take seven because you're raging. And the
bite attack against you is a natural two plus six.
No, that misses you with an eight. However, that
finishes their round and this guy up here who now
spins around and sees the rest of you come inside
begins shouting out in a language you don't
understand (snarling). As it's holding up this
staff that has this almost crystal spike of
natural crystal at the end of it, it begins to
chant something under its breath. And as it spins
its hand in the air, you watch as the ceiling
above you in this chamber begins to grow into this
low cloud that spirals out, encompassing the
entirety of the interior of the chamber.
LAURA: Run away!
MATT: You see little sparks of lightning arcing
through the cloud as it spools above.
MARISHA: Motherfucking druid fish.
MATT: Beau, I need you to make a dexterity saving
throw, since you're the one closest to it.
MARISHA: Saving throw.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: That's a natural one.
MATT: You suffer 16 points of lightning damage as
you get struck by lightning in the water. Which
you watch as technically now, yeah, if any of you
are in the water when the lightning hits you, you
have disadvantage on your saving throw because you
are in the water. Didn't matter this time because
you failed anyway, but you watch as the bolt
strikes Beau and she starts thrashing in the water
as the muscles tense. There's a giant burn mark on
the side of your head.
TRAVIS: Oh shit, you guys! Oh, fuck.
MATT: Looking pretty rough on that one.
MARISHA: I just got fucked up.
MATT: And it's going to go ahead and spin itself
over to the edge this way, using the one below.
Getting itself between the rest of its merrow
compatriots and you guys. That finishes their
turn; Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Ah! Okay, I'm going to take the one who's
got a trident jabbed into my shoulder. I'm going
to grab the chain and I'm going to yank it towards
me as I deck him in the face twice.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: The first attack--
MATT: If you want to move around to get onto land,
otherwise you're going to be having a hard time in
the water here attacking them because you're
constantly swimming.
MARISHA: Can I do that?
MATT: You still have movement, yeah. So you can
move five, ten, 15, 20, 25 there. So you manage to
whip around, get out, up onto land and not end up
with a disadvantage on your attacks.
MARISHA: Okay, the first one is 15?
MATT: 15 does hit, yes.
MARISHA: Woohoo! Okay, second attack; not as good,
12.
MATT: 12 does not hit, unfortunately. But the
first strike, as you pull up, cracks it right in
the jaw. The next one, it manages to bash your arm
out of the way and it deflects off the side-- no impact.
MARISHA: Okay, that's seven damage.
MATT: All righty, the first strike.
MARISHA: And then I am going to take my bonus and
spend a ki point to do Patient Defense.
MATT: Okay, so as you get up on land, you focus
and looking around side-to-side, make sure that
you're aware of everything around you and get
ready to defend and deflect.
MARISHA: A little in shock. (pants) Ah!
MATT: Okay, that finishes Beau's turn. Jester,
you're up.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use Spiritual Weapon
that I have up and try to hit that thing.
MATT: Go ahead and roll the attack for that guy.
LAURA: Ooh, that hits, that's a good one.
MATT: Okay, all right, what was the number?
LAURA: 15 plus my attack.
MATT: 15 is its armor class, so yeah, that's
fine. Well, 13 actually, so that definitely hits.
LAURA: And then 2d8-- seven points of force damage
to him.
MATT: Seven points plus your wisdom modifier.
LAURA: Oh, plus four, so 11!
MATT: There you go. 11 points of damage to him.
All right, how do you want to do this?
(cheering)
LAURA: Oh man, that feels good. I haven't got that
in a long time! I'm going to use the giant
lollipop and it's going to raise really high up on
the roof and then slam down onto it as hard as it can!
MATT: Yasha, as you're engaged with it, both
growling at each other, you watch as suddenly its
body crumples into the stonework.
ASHLEY: I scream out, yeah, Jester!
MATT: It slips into the water and vanishes beneath
the waves.
ASHLEY: I flip it off.
MATT: So that's your bonus action. You still have
your movement and action.
LAURA: I'm also going to move it closer to the one
next to Beau.
MATT: Right there?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: And then I'm going to cast Cure Wounds at--
Should I do that? Or should I do Toll the Dead on him?
MATT: Cure Wounds is touch, so you have to be
right next to him.
LAURA: Just kidding! I'm going to Toll the Dead on
the one that Beau's fighting.
MATT: Okay, what's the range on that?
LAURA: Okay, hold on.
TALIESIN and SAM: That's a lot of spells.
LAURA: Yeah, well, you know.
MATT: Caleb, you're up next so be ready.
LIAM: What's the lighting like in here?
MATT: Right now? None, there is no light.
LAURA: 60 feet.
MATT: 60 feet? All right, yeah, so you can do it
from there if you want.
LAURA: Okay, cool. It's a wisdom save and he's
Hexed on wisdom.
MATT: Natural 20.
TRAVIS and LAURA: Disadvantage?
MATT: No, that's disadvantage on wisdom checks,
not wisdom saving throws. Hex doesn't affect
saving throws.
TRAVIS: I am sorry. I did not understand that
part.
MATT: Yeah, but, for instance, if you had said
strength checks, then every time it tries to pull
somebody, it would have disadvantage on that.
LAURA: Oh, that would have been better, then, huh?
TRAVIS: The lesson in the lesson.
MATT: But now you know, going forward with Hex.
SAM: If we survive this.
TRAVIS: Well, fuck me sideways.
TALIESIN: I feel your pain.
LAURA: Yay, that's pretty much all I can do.
MATT: Going to stay where you are?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All right, that finishes Jester's turn.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I cannot see anything. I'm going to move
towards the sound of Jester shouting in the dark
and I'm going to raise up the Glove of Blasting
and try to shoot the fish-man that I heard way up
high ahead of me, up the hill. They'll all be at
disadvantage.
MATT: The one that's attacking Beau, or the one at
the very top?
LIAM: The one with the staff at the top.
MATT: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on all
the attacks.
TRAVIS: We get like, little strobes from the
lightning. It's like that opening sequence in Blade.
LIAM: First one's 15.
MATT: 15 just barely hits.
LIAM: Second one is 14.
MATT: 14 misses.
LIAM: And then that is also 14, so just one of
them hits.
MATT: So, one of them hits. The two other ones
careen off and you watch as they streak out into
the darkness past this merrow, what looks to be a
priest-like entity up there that's commanding the
storm. Exploding on the rocks behind it, one
hitting this piece of long-lingering temple-like
interior. And one finally strikes it in the chest.
Go ahead and roll damage on that one.
LIAM: That is six points of fire damage.
MATT: It does make a concentration check. Natural
17 plus two. It does succeed in maintaining
concentration.
LIAM: Okay, that's it.
MATT: That's your turn. Caleb's done. Molly,
you're up.
SAM: Yeah, Hasty.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to run, I'm going to use
my bonus action to activate one of my swords.
MATT: The other one? Or do you still have the one
activated from before?
TALIESIN: Technically, that would have still been
activated, so shit, that's right. Yeah, I'm going
to use my bonus action to activate the other one,
too. I'm going to see if I can make it to that
little hill over there.
MATT: Which one? Here?
TALIESIN: I'm going to attack the one that's right
in front of Fjord.
LIAM: Double speed.
MATT: Okay, that will put you right there. So you
rush up to the edge there. You used your bonus
action, you have your two attacks and your hasted
attack.
TALIESIN: Yes, so I'm going to do two attacks plus
a hasted attack. That's 17. That hits, one does
not, and then my third attack is a 16 that also
hits.
MATT: So two attacks. Go ahead and roll damage on
that.
SAM: Wow!
TALIESIN: That's eight points of damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage, nice.
TALIESIN: And nine points of damage.
MATT: All righty. You're using the d6's for
your--
TALIESIN: I am using the d6's.
MATT: Cool, so as you rush up, you swing the
scimitars in this blast of speed. Two of them
manage to strike true to its body, cutting out a
piece of it. It's looking pretty hurt now,
starting to bleed out where the wounds are hit.
But it's growling in your face as it spins around.
Its fins curl up from the side and you can smell
this awful, swampy, almost sulfurous smell from
its breath in your face. Is that your turn?
TALIESIN: That's the end of my turn.
SAM and LAURA: Two attacks?
TALIESIN: That was three attacks, one missed.
LAURA: Oh.
MATT: All right, that brings us to Nott, who is
waiting patiently with Kiri.
SAM: I'll send a Message to Caleb. Are you guys
alive and do you need anything? You can reply to
this message.
LIAM: Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck,
fuck!
SAM: Uh-oh.
MATT: Is that your turn?
SAM: That's it.
LAURA: You didn't move at all?
SAM: I'm going to think about it.
MATT: That brings us to Fjord.
TRAVIS: After getting so fucked up that last
round-- the scratch, the bite, and the trident in
the gut-- I'll put both hands on the falchion and
say, Do not see me, and I'll cast Blink.
MARISHA: (gasps)
MATT: Okay!
ALL: Ooh!
MATT: And Blink is not concentration, correct?
TRAVIS: It is not.
MATT: Yes, all right. So with that, Fjord vanishes
from the battlefield. We'll use this as a spatial
positioning device of where you were before.
TRAVIS: That's my turn.
MATT: That ends Fjord's turn. That brings it to
the top of the round. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Fjord vanished. You see two now turning
their eyes towards Mollymauk who's right there.
There's one across the way that's currently
barrelling on Beau and there's the one at the top
of the stairs right now that looks like it's
commanding a giant storm.
ASHLEY: I'm going to go over to the one by Beau.
MATT: Over here?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: So that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 35. You're
in the water swimming, so your attacks are at
disadvantage right now.
ASHLEY: Okay. All right.
MATT: If you wanted to do Reckless, you could
counteract that, but you'll be taking--
ASHLEY: Well, I had one natural 20, and then 18
was my lowest.
MATT: Wait, so that was disadvantage?
TALIESIN: She rolled a natural 20 for her other
roll.
MATT: Got you, so the first attack was what?
ASHLEY: 12 plus six.
MATT: That hits. So your first attack hits. Go
ahead and roll damage on that.
ASHLEY: Okay, same as last time. 19 points of
damage.
MATT: 19 points of damage, nice! All right, and
you have your second attack, with disadvantage.
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: 15 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: Murder it.
ASHLEY: 15 points of damage.
MATT: This is-- you only do five additional damage
on this one. Right? So 15?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Damn, nice roll! As you, in the water,
cleave out once with the blade in this giant
splash arc of water from the middle of the pool in
the center, it carves across the side of its back.
(snarling) It turns around towards you right as
you bring the second strike up into its abdomen.
It pushes off the blade and it looks pretty hurt.
It's bleeding out of its wounds in the middle of
its stomach and its back. That finishes your
turn?
ASHLEY: Do I have a-- no, never mind, that's not a
bonus action. Never mind, sorry. Was going to try
Healing Hands.
MATT: That ends your turn. It's their turn. So, I
will need you, first off, to make a dexterity
saving throw. As you come up and carve into the
back of it, the one on top hisses and directs its
finger down towards you as a bolt of lightning
arcs out of the--
ASHLEY: Ten.
TALIESIN: Wait, no, it's a saving throw, right?
MATT: Yeah, saving throw. Plus?
TALIESIN: Oh, it's a dex saving throw? Never mind,
sorry.
MATT: That does not succeed. You're in the water,
so it would be disadvantage anyway.
TALIESIN: That makes me sad.
MATT: That is 25 points of lightning damage, which
is not halved on you because the rage doesn't
affect it. It only affects slashing, piercing, and
bludgeoning. So you're blasted in the middle of
the water. You sink for a moment as your muscles give
out, your sword almost falls out of your grasp,
and you manage to right yourself as you're
treading water here. Your feet can't touch the
bottom of this pool and your eyes go flashing
white for a second, and for an instant, you see
the face of Kord the Stormlord there from the
vision your recently had. Then clarify and shake
it out of your head and carry yourself back into
place. That's going to finish this guy who's going
to move around. He can only move ten feet so he
goes five, ten. He's going to stop right there.
SAM: She got shocked so hard we saw parts of her
dream.
(laughter)
MATT: This guy right here is going to go ahead
towards you, Beau, as you're right there. He has
disadvantage on the attacks against you, though.
He's going to go ahead and make its claw attack
against you, with disadvantage. That's cocked. You
saved yourself from a natural 20 with that one.
It's a 16, which I believe misses, right?
MARISHA: Misses. Just misses.
MATT: So, as it claws toward you, you, being
prepared for it, dart off to the side. It's going
to go ahead and take a bite at you.
MARISHA: You have such big hands.
MATT: With disadvantage, another natural 20
averted! However, that does come to a 19, so I
believe that does hit you.
MARISHA: Ah!
TRAVIS: Whoosh. Worcestershire sauce.
MATT: That is 11 points of piercing damage as it
bites down onto the front of your clavicle and face.
MARISHA: I'm unconscious. Again.
MATT: Beau falls to the ground. As she sinks from
its jaw under the rock there, it spins around
towards you, right in your face, its gills flaring
up. That's going to end its turn. The two over
here, this one's going to move there and they're
both going to flank Molly. They are both going to
harpoon you-- jam melee at the one on this side.
First attack is going to be an 18 to hit.
TALIESIN: That hits.
MATT: What's your armor class?
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: Plus two because of the Haste.
TALIESIN: That is with the plus two. I'm an AC of
15. I am easy target.
MATT: Oh, buddy. That does hit you. So the first
harpoon strike against you-- that's eight plus
four, 12 points of piercing damage. It jams you
into the abdomen from that side. The other strike--
TALIESIN: The other person, I'm casting Curse of
the Eyeless on the second.
MATT: This guy's finishing his round. He's
attempting to bite you, that's going to be a 15.
TALIESIN: That does not hit.
MATT: As he bites down towards you, this time as
you pull the trident out you jam it up and it
throws him off and clips him in the side of the
chin, breaking off one of his teeth. At that
moment, the guy behind you is going to swing in
with his harpoon as well.
TALIESIN: Curse of the Eyeless.
MATT: Okay, reaction to that.
TALIESIN: And I take my three points of damage.
MATT: That's cocked. So he has a regular strike on
this one, so the attack with the harpoon is going
to be a 21 to hit, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: With disadvantage?
MATT: Well, he had advantage because he had you
flanked, so it just made it a general roll.
TALIESIN: Okay, that hits.
MATT: So that is going to be ten points of
piercing damage as the other harpoon jams you in
the back. As you're arcing upward, it's going to
attempt to bite down at you, but its eyes have
gone dark and it's just biting wild in front,
using the thrashing of your body to guide itself.
That is going to be a natural seven plus six, 13.
Misses. So it bites down, you manage to duck out
of the way and slam the hilt of your scimitar up
into its face and knock it off to the side. That's
going to end their go. That brings us to Beau. I
need you to make a death saving throw, please.
SAM: Were you saying the Curse of the Islands?
TALIESIN: The Eyeless.
MARISHA: Let's go cobalt blue. 17.
MATT: That's one success. Mark it on your tattoo.
Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to use my action to Invoke
Duplicity, and I'm going to make her appear
standing right next to Yasha. But I can't use my
action to make her doing anything--
MATT: It's a 30-foot range, right? So it'd be
right there.
LAURA: Okay. And then I'm going to use my bonus
action--
MATT: She's gliding on the water, tiptoe.
LAURA: Yeah. Healing Word at level two on Beau. I
know that's lame, but it's something. Oh that's
good, that's 11 points of healing.
MARISHA: (singing) That's amaze-balls!
MATT: 11 points to Beau. You come back to
consciousness on the ground, your body was just
starting to roll and slip into the water. You
catch one of the rocks and keep yourself from
going back into the drink.
MARISHA: I'm going to try to still play dead.
LAURA: That's all I can do and my action, and I'm
not going to move.
MATT: Well, your action was to--
LAURA: Invoke Duplicity.
MATT: Right, that's correct. That finishes your go
there. Caleb, you're up.
MARISHA: Thanks, Jester!
LIAM: Ja, how far can I get towards this one
over there? Even if it means going in the water.
MATT: Over here? You can get partway into the
water.
LIAM: Will I get within 30 feet of him?
MATT: Possibly?
LIAM: Well, show me how far--
MATT: He's here. That's (counting) 30, so most
likely.
LIAM: I'm going to try it. I'm going to wade in.
MATT: (counting) Just outside of 30 for the
range.
LAURA: Attack the one next to Beau. (coos)
(laughter)
LIAM: I was considering it, it's just not what I
wanted to do. I'm going to cast Dispel Magic on
the storm above me.
ALL: Ooh!
MATT: Looking at that, I believe the level is
level three or lower? It's a 3rd-level spell. The
storm immediately, with one final crackle, fades
and dissipates above. The cavern above now just
the empty, dark roof it was before, the storm no
longer present.
LIAM: Everybody hears (nervous laughter).
MATT: That ends Caleb's turn. Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: I am yelling: Fjord! I am going to take
a swing at the one that's looking a little rough.
I believe it's that one, yeah. Oh my fucking god.
11.
MATT: 11 does not hit. You have three more attacks
with your bonus action, if you want to.
TALIESIN: 24.
MATT: 24 hits. Roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: Nine points of damage.
MATT: Nine points of damage, all righty.
TALIESIN: Still standing?
MATT: Barely.
TALIESIN: I'll swing again. 23.
MATT: 23 hits.
TALIESIN: Ten points of damage.
MATT: That'll do it, how do you want to do this?
TALIESIN: I'm literally just a windmill at this
point.
MATT: A whirling dervish of blades as you carve
through. You start biting through with the blades,
carves one part of its chest, part of its arm,
down on its chest, looks up and right
through its face.
TALIESIN: Then spinning around, I go right to face
the other one and I'm going to take my last attack
against it.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: Nope. I don't even know why I'm
bothering.
LAURA: It's okay, stick with the ones that were
good for you. That one and the pink one.
MATT: That finishes Molly's turn. Nott.
SAM: I hand the books to little Kiri and I say:
Keep these safe.
MATT: (like Jester) "Wrapped around his weenie?"
SAM: Good idea. I'll take a little bit of fleece
and rip it and cast Silent Image, and make a wall
of stone around Kiri. Just say: Don't move.
MATT: Okay. You cannot see Kiri, just vanishes
amongst the visuals of the illusion.
SAM: Go over to the water, put my foot in, and
then--
withdraw it, and take a big swig.
(laughter)
MATT: All right, finishing Nott's turn. Fjord.
Where do you want to emerge?
TRAVIS: I forgot to do the 2d8 of booming damage
on the gentleman behind Molly. So that's a big
one, and three, so four points of booming damage.
MATT: Well, technically that was the other guy.
TRAVIS: Oh was it?
MATT: Yeah. They shifted around.
TRAVIS: Ah. They do-si-doed?
MATT: They did.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. Can I appear right next to
this gentleman on his reverse? There you go. I
will break my--
MATT: If you'd like to-- fucking stay! If you want
to, you can appear up top there and get
a flanking bonus.
TRAVIS: That sounds dandy.
MATT: You can use it against them, they can use it
against you, as long as you are directly across
from an enemy with an ally, you can give yourself
flanking benefit.
TRAVIS: Great. I will break my Hex, and I will use
a Hexblade's Curse as my bonus action
on that gentleman.
MATT: On this one? Okay. There you go.
TRAVIS: I will make two attacks with the
Wastehunter falchion against him with the
monstrous--
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: Flanking gets-- what does it add? Does it
do anything?
MATT: Flanking? It's advantage on your attacks.
TRAVIS: Okay, so first attack. 15.
MATT: 15 does hit.
TRAVIS: Great. And the second one. Neither of
those are a crit, but that's a 24 on the second one.
MATT: That hits, roll damage for each.
TRAVIS: (counting) 17. For the Hexblade, four
points of damage, so 21 on the first one.
(counting) 17 on the second.
MATT: How do you want to do this? You fucked that
guy up.
TRAVIS: I'll shift in right behind him and see
Molly looking around, give him a little wink, and
I'll take the falchion and take the back of his
head off.
MATT: Molly, it's pulling back ready to leap at
you, and as it lurches towards you it stops, you
watch as the upper half of its shoulders and head
slip and slough off into the water.
TALIESIN: You fucking arsehole.
TRAVIS: Sorry. I was getting what for, man. Shit.
And I'll-- oh wait. Natural 20. Peace out!
MATT: You vanish out of the space. That's a hell
of a round. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to go after this buddy
here. Are we flanking him, technically?
MATT: Right now? No.
LAURA: Technically, because Beau's on the ground?
MATT: Beau is not threatening. You have to be on
the opposite sides.
ASHLEY: So disadvantage still?
MATT: Yep, because you're in the water.
ASHLEY: 13.
MATT: 13 just hits.
TALIESIN: Oh god, that looked like a one for a
moment. Sevens are scary. No, it was a seven. I
was just staring at it going: oh no.
ASHLEY: Did I get it, though?
TALIESIN: Yeah you did, you're right.
LAURA: How much damage do you do? Because you hit
it.
ASHLEY: Oh shit. Sorry.
TRAVIS: I heal 13 points.
MATT: Nice.
ASHLEY: 14 for the first hit.
MATT: It's hanging on by a thread.
ASHLEY: Okay, that hits. Eight points of damage.
MATT: Yeah, that'll do it. How do you want to do
this?
ASHLEY: I'm going to take my blade, slit it in its
throat, pull its tongue through and give him a
Xhorhasian necktie!
(cheering)
TRAVIS: That's that barbarian shit!
MATT: So one-handed wide swing, with the same
motion, you reach up right into the wound, tear it
through, and maintain eye contact as it tumbles
over into the water and disappears beneath the
surface.
TRAVIS: All day. I'm up for that all day. That's
what I'm here for.
LIAM: That did not sound good.
MATT: That ends your turn? You still have your
movement.
ASHLEY: Beau, what are you at? Oh no, I can't do
that.
MARISHA: On my back, out of air, I go: That was
awesome!
ASHLEY: All right, could I walk over a little bit
so I can stand on the--
LAURA: Stairs?
ASHLEY: Yeah, so I'm not in the water.
MATT: You're right next to Beau on the ground. You
got out of the water. All right, ends your turn?
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: There's a sound in the nearby water, as,
emerging from one of the other caverns on the
side, another merrow emerges from that side and
another emerges from this side. The one up top
here that sees everyone closing in is going to
back up into the water, and is going to cast Call
Lightning again. It wants to bring it about. Use
the other level three spell slot. With that, as
the cloud forms up in the sky again, seeing you
step out of the water, you do not have
disadvantage on the saving throw, but I need you
to make another dexterity saving throw.
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: It is a 13 DC, so you only take half damage.
Which is good, because that would be 24 damage, so
you take 12 points of lightning damage.
ASHLEY: 12, you said?
MATT: Yes, 12 points of lightning damage.
SAM: She's got, like, 100 more points.
TALIESIN: Nah.
ASHLEY: I'm, as Matt would say, looking rough.
MATT: He's going to dive into the water. You know
where he disappeared beneath the surface as you
see the water rippling out, but you're not sure
where he is or how deep he is. These two have
emerged. This one's going to move through the
water to there, and is going to make a harpoon--
Let's move over a bit further because it can, to
about there. It's going to make a harpoon strike
towards you, Yasha, throwing it in your direction.
That's a 20 to hit.
ASHLEY: Yeah, that hits.
MATT: All right, you take-- that's a bad roll,
eight points of piercing damage reduced to half,
so you take four points of piercing damage. I need
you to make a strength check, so roll a d20 and
add your strength modifier as it's attempting to
yank and pull you towards him.
TRAVIS: Let him know!
SAM: This is your thing, you are strong!
ASHLEY: Get out of the thing, go away. Okay, okay,
okay. Oh shit.
MATT: You have advantage on your strength checks
because you're raging.
ASHLEY: Oh, I do! That's not much better. Ten!
MATT: He pulled a 13, natural nine plus four. You
get yanked. Beau, you watch as Yasha gets yanked
over you as you're lying on the ground, and it's
going to attempt to bite you as you're down in the
water once more. Natural 19. That's 25 to hit. So
with that, the bite attack, let's roll damage on
that. That is going to be ten points of piercing
damage, reduced to five, 'cause you're raging.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: This guy here is going to go ahead and move
up right next to Caleb, rushing out of the water
from underneath with the harpoon in its arms, and
jam it towards your torso. That's going to be a 15
to hit.
LIAM: Shield.
MATT: All right. You watch as it deflects off of
your body. It's going to angrily attempt to bite
down on you. That's a natural 17 plus six.
LIAM: I will use the dodecahedron and roll a 20 on
this side. I got a natural two.
SAM: So you're rerolling for him.
LIAM: I get to choose, it says it on this paper.
Alternatively, after an attack roll is made
against me, I can expend the fragment to roll an
additional d20 and choose. So two plus whatever.
MATT: As it attempts to bite down towards you,
there's a brief moment where the bite sinks into
your shoulder, and there's a brief burst where
time seems to dart back, and you step out of the
way as its bite hits air with no effect.
LIAM: Caleb will remember this.
MATT: All right. That ends their turn. Now it is
Beau.
MARISHA: I'm good. I'm still alive. And I get up.
I go, (slurred) Who's-- who's next? And I run over--
MATT: It's half your movement to get up, so you
have 20 movement.
MARISHA: I have 20 movement.
TRAVIS: She healed up drunk.
MATT: Wouldn't she, though?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MARISHA: Am I able to, if I use Step of the Wind,
am I able to make it around and get to this one
who's harrassing Caleb?
MATT: You can certainly try.
MARISHA: 'Cause I'd have 20 more movement and then my
speed, which is 40. So I should be able to make it.
MATT: You should. Do you want to try? All right.
So five, ten, 15, and then go ahead and make an
athletics check to make the leap. I'm letting you
see if you can make it across the water without
losing your movement.
SAM: You're great at jumping over small bodies of
liquid, Marisha.
MARISHA: I am. Yeah, that's 15.
MATT: 15? Yeah. (counting) You're just outside of
it to be within melee.
MARISHA: Really? I've got extended melee. Come on,
man.
MATT: (counting) Actually, 35, 40, you can do it
with just one if you're there. So you manage to
spin around, using your bonus action for Step of
the Wind, so you still have your action.
MARISHA: All right, two attacks. Let's see what
happens. First one: natural 20!
(yelling)
MARISHA: I'm super pissed off! Okay, okay, okay.
Roll high on this one. That's good. 12 plus
another six. That's 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage on that one. Damn.
Nice.
MARISHA: I hate fish.
TRAVIS: Hate-fish. They have great sushi there.
MARISHA: And then I'm going to take the end of my
bo, jab it right in its throat, see if I can get
another one.
LIAM: That's cocked. You've got to take the good
with the bad.
MARISHA: Ten.
MATT: Ten misses, however the critical did-- as
you run up from the side, you parkour off the
wall, the side of the pillar there, leap, whack!
Slam it with the staff. You see its head get
pushed underwater again. It turns around; its eyes
are adjusting like yours were a moment ago, and as
you go to swing a second time, it does manage to
deflect it with the side of its trident. No impact.
MARISHA: I think that's all I've got.
MATT: All right, that finishes Beau's turn. Jester,
you're up. Caleb, you're on deck.
LAURA: Are any of them looking rough?
MATT: At the moment? This one's been hurt, this
one has not been, and this one is not visible. It
is beneath the surface of the water.
LAURA: I'm going to have Jester run up to the one
that Beau just hit-- yeah, the me. Yeah. And I'm
going to Inflict Wounds on it at level one.
MATT: Okay. So go ahead and roll a melee spell
attack on it. If you want to move here, you can
flank it. All righty. So you're opposite of Beau,
using that flank maneuver. So don't forget, you
guys can flank on direct opposites. They can also
flank against you.
TRAVIS: So what is it? What is it?
TALIESIN: I don't even know why I bother.
TRAVIS: At advantage, too?
MATT: Oh, natural one and a natural four.
LAURA: It's a touch, though. Yeah, no, it doesn't
matter. They're slippery little suckers.
MATT: So as you swing out with your hand, your
foot catches the edge of one of the pebbles, and
you stumble for a second, and your hand goes wide
off to the side, hits some of the stone on the
wall behind you and releases the spell's impact
against lifeless wall, unfortunately.
MARISHA: Don't touch attacks avoid AC?
MATT: No, that's Pathfinder rules.
MARISHA: Aw. Man, that's old school.
LAURA: For my bonus, I'm going to move my
Spiritual Weapon and try to do the same thing and
hit it.
MATT: That it can do.
LAURA: Can I flank it and get a bonus on--
MATT: No, not technically a creature.
LAURA: Okay, that hits.
MATT: All right, so 2d8 plus four.
TRAVIS: Come on, now!
LAURA: 11.
MATT: 11 points of damage. Crack! The giant
lollipop swings and hits the side of the jaw. It
dislodges for a second, then for a moment it's
trying to hold the trident with one hand and the
other's trying to push it back into place.
LAURA: And I say, tastes good, doesn't it?
MATT: (laughs) Awesome. That finishes your go.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I'm going to save my higher stuff for the
guy who's disappeared, so I'm going to Fire Bolt
it right at point-blank range at disadvantage.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: Ugh.
(laughter)
LIAM: I rolled a two.
MATT: Nope. Nope. You get scared in the moment,
because you're still thrashing in the water, and
you put the hand up and go (effort sound, fizzle).
You were aiming six feet from it. It goes up like
a firework and hits the roof.
LIAM: I'm going to crouch down into the water and
submerge up to my neck in the hopes that it does
not know where I am and I'm too short to be hit.
TRAVIS: Like the gas range, he's trying to--
MATT: That ends Caleb's go. Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: Shite.
SAM: You're super fast. Remember, you're super
fast.
MATT: You have 60 feet of movement.
LAURA: Help Yasha!
TALIESIN: Yeah, I suppose we're doing-- yeah.
LIAM: Flank that Yasha enemy! (pigeon coos)
TALIESIN: Running to the Yasha creature.
MATT: Are you running through the water or going
to make a leap across?
TALIESIN: I'm going to run through the water.
Speed's doubled.
MATT: (counting) If you want to flank, you'll be
in the water, which is disadvantage on your attacks.
TALIESIN: That doesn't matter, then.
LIAM: Advantage to disadvantage, straight roll.
MATT: It's a straight roll if you stay there, or a
straight roll if you end up flanking it. Yes.
TALIESIN: Actually, here's an interesting thing,
is-- oh, god, yeah. I don't want to be in the
water, so I'm going to stay on that little patch
of land so I don't get--
MATT: So make your four attacks on it, if you
want.
TALIESIN: All right, first two rounds. That's a 14
and a natural 20.
MATT: Okay, yeah, that'll do.
TALIESIN: So the natural 20 is double the dice?
MATT: Yep, just roll the dice.
TALIESIN: All right. Eh. That's nine. And the
other one is 11.
MATT: 11 points of damage. And then your third
strike with your Haste.
TALIESIN: Third and fourth. That's-- one of them
misses, but the other one's 19, the other one
hits, the other one is ten.
MATT: All right, so that hits on the third strike,
there.
TALIESIN: That's better. 11 points of damage.
MATT: Ooh. 31 points of damage in one round. As
you're carving through it rapidly, it is looking
pretty hurt. It's not on death's door, but you
singlehandedly carved it pretty hard in one round.
TALIESIN: I'm going to use my bonus action--
MATT: You already used your bonus action.
TALIESIN: Oh, I did, for the attack! Never mind.
Never mind. That's literally everything I can do.
MATT: All right, that ends Molly's go. Nott.
SAM: See, Kiri, I think they would have called if
they really needed me. I think no news is good
news, and--
TRAVIS: Just then, a couple bubbles.
SAM: That's probably a good sign. And the water
looks cold anyway, and you could get hypothermia,
so, you know, I've got to protect you, and, yeah.
That's my turn.
(laughter)
MATT: That's amazing. Okay, Fjord, you're up. As
you reapparate within ten feet of where you were--
TRAVIS: Closer to Molly. And I go, boo! Ah, shit.
MARISHA: Party's left.
TRAVIS: Fuck. And seeing that they're engaged
elsewhere, I'll fire my first two Eldritch Blasts
at the one that's engaged with Molly and Yasha.
Which is 18 to hit.
MATT: Just remembering, why did you drop Hex
again? It was because you cast--
TRAVIS: Hexblade's Curse.
MATT: All righty. So first strike was 18, that
hits.
TRAVIS: That is 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage, nice.
TRAVIS: Is he still up? Then I'll send the second
one in his direction as well. That's 22 to hit.
MATT: That works.
TRAVIS: Seven points of damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage, that'll do it. How
do you want to do this?
(cheering)
TRAVIS: I'll pop up and be like, fuck, the first
time I do it, son of a bitch. And I'll go
(magical buzzing and whooshing) and send both
of them over there.
MATT: Both (impacts) on its side. You watch as one
of its arms gets blown off and flings, landing on
the top of the stairs before rolling down a few
steps and coming to rest.
TRAVIS: As Molly looks over, I'm like (blows).
MATT: It slips down into the water. Yasha, you
take one swipe at it for good measure as it sinks
below. All right, and roll your d20 to see whether
you stay or go.
TRAVIS: 13.
ALL: (singing) Should I stay or should I go now?
TRAVIS: It's important to remember that you
don't--
(laughter)
TALIESIN: So irritating.
MATT: Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: All right. Can I get out of the water?
MATT: Right now, you're in the water, so with full
speed, you're probably not going to get to it
unless you take an action to dash.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'll hop up back on that, out of the
water there.
MATT: You have 30 feet of movement. There's the
guy who's underwater over here somewhere, and
there's the guy that's currently assaulted by most
of your team on the other side.
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'll move closer to where I think
the guy is.
MATT: (counting) There?
ASHLEY: And then I will cast Healing Hands on
myself.
MATT: Okay, so you reach down and touch the
front of your chest--
ASHLEY: Bring me to a whole seven.
MATT: Oh, shit.
MARISHA: You were that bad? Wow.
TALIESIN: Two. Two hit points. That's two kittens,
man.
MATT: So that ends your turn?
ASHLEY: Yeah, maybe not a good idea to walk over
there.
MATT: Emerging from the water, the water splashes
up as it glances up. On the other side, that one
merrow's right there, have him surrounded, is
going to make one strike again towards Caleb. That
is a 23 to hit.
LIAM: I'll take it.
MATT: Okay. That comes to 12 points of piercing
damage. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
MARISHA: Do I have a reaction? Can I hit it?
MATT: You can, because it's attacking someone
that's not you.
MARISHA: Yes, Sentinel shit!
LIAM: Get out of here, status thing.
MARISHA: Terrible, terrible. That's a ten.
LIAM: What was the damage before, DM?
MATT: 12.
LIAM: Thank you, thank you. My web browser's going
insane. I can't. Hold on.
SAM: Refresh.
TRAVIS: I got you. I got it right here.
LIAM: I have no internet right now. I rolled a
six, and I don't know what my con is because I
have lost--
SAM: It's in your notebook somewhere. Your
character sheet. You printed it out somewhere, right?
MARISHA: You don't have a print-out of your
character sheet?
LIAM: Oh, you're right, I do, after you asked me
nine times.
(laughter)
MATT: I believe your constitution is 14, if I
recall? Which brings a +2 to what you rolled.
TRAVIS: If you got that right, that's some fucking
Beautiful Mind shit.
MATT: Yeah, 14. Failure. Haste wears off, because
you lose concentration.
TALIESIN: Oh god, does that mean I-- oh, shit. I'm
out for a round, aren't I?
LIAM: Does the exhaustion happen when the spell's
broken?
MATT: When the spell ends, the target can't move
or take actions.
MARISHA: Oh, shit.
LAURA: Oh, that's a shitty side effect.
MATT: And, to follow that up, it's going to bite
down towards Caleb, seeing that you're probably
the easiest meat around here, unarmored. That's a
natural 20. I'm having really good luck.
LAURA: I'm easy meat!
MARISHA: Check the lollipop, it's so inviting!
ASHLEY: Tasty treat.
MATT: All right, so with a bite attack against
you, that is 14 points of piercing damage to you, Caleb.
LIAM: Okay. Earlier, I'm sorry, because the
internet shit the bed on me, so it was 12 plus 14.
I'm still up.
MATT: Oh my god. Okay. Ending that turn, the other
one standing there emerges, the storm in the sky.
It sees you standing up again and goes (growls).
Sounds like some horrible curse. I need you to
make a dexterity saving throw.
TRAVIS: You know what, it's okay, because there's
fucking smoke on our map.
MARISHA: It looks great.
TALIESIN: I'm pleased.
MATT: Thank you, Taliesin. A great gift I'm glad
I've been able to use finally.
ASHLEY: 18.
MATT: 18, okay, so half damage. We'll see what it
rolls.
TRAVIS: Come on, 13 or less.
MATT: That is a nine, a one, and a three. 13
points of damage. Lightning damage. Halved to six.
Not even joking. You can look at the dice.
TRAVIS: I believe you.
MATT: I can't fucking believe that.
SAM and LAURA: She's okay.
TRAVIS: Yep, you're at one.
MATT: You are a fucking warlock, is what that is.
You know that, but--
TRAVIS: (singing) You got the perfect warlock.
(laughter)
MATT: God damn it.
TALIESIN: Holy cow.
MATT: And is going to vanish once more beneath the
surface of the water. You don't know quite where
it is, that's where you last saw it disappear.
That brings us to Beau.
MARISHA: It's me already? Oh, shit. I'm going to
unleash on this guy. Again, crack, crack, see what
happens.
MATT: You have advantage on these because you're
flanked currently with Jester.
MARISHA: Oh, goodness gracious! Yes! I'm going to
try and use my staff to pole vault me up in the
air and go crack, crack, with two big swoopy
swoops. I'll take the 13, eight plus six is 13. 14!
MATT: 14 hits him. Armor class of 13.
MARISHA: That's eight plus another four so that's
12 damage for the first one. Second one. That
hits, 18.
MATT: 18 hits, roll damage for the second strike.
MARISHA: Five damage.
MATT: Whack, whack! You hit both sides with the
staff. It's being knocked around, spitting blood
out of its mouth. It's hurt.
MARISHA: It's hurt.
SAM: Mildly hurt.
MATT: It's hurt pretty bad.
MARISHA: I have one more ki point. I can stun it,
or I can do Flurry of Blows and try to kill it.
LAURA: Kill it! Flurry of Blows it!
MARISHA: All right, last ki point. Flurry of
Blows.
MATT: Make two more strikes against it.
MARISHA and TRAVIS: (chanting) Apology, apology!
SAM: Guilt attack!
TRAVIS: "Did I say I was sorry?"
MARISHA: Hey Caleb, we should talk later. I'll
take that 13, so it's 20 for the first attack. And
then 12? No. Yes. No, 12.
MATT: 12 does not hit, but one of them does.
MARISHA: Stupid. Seven damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage, how do you want to
do this?
(cheering)
MARISHA: I pole vault up, do the two hits, and
then I want to parkour off of the spiritual weapon
a little bit, Marty McFly on the lollipop, and
then do a flying roundhouse to his face!
MATT: Whack! Right across his face. The impact
throws its head with such a speed down onto the
rocks, right at the bottom of Jester's feet.
Crack! It slowly slides, gurgling, into the water,
sinking below.
MARISHA: I stand up, throw my hair out of my face,
and that ends my turn.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Cure Wounds. I'm
going to walk up behind Caleb and give him a hug
around the waist and say: you're okay, my friend.
LIAM: He's like this in the water.
LAURA: I cast at level two, so that's 2d8 plus
four. 12 points of healing for you. For my bonus
action, I'm going to have my duplicity self run up
and stand right next to the spot where the fish
wizard comes out.
MATT: Right there?
LAURA: Yeah. She's going to--
TRAVIS: Look real mean.
MATT: Good to know. Finishing your turn, Jester,
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Am I able to wade onto the land, just behind
Beau there? Yeah, if I go in that direction, can I
get off on dry land?
MATT: You can just barely get onto land if you
want.
LIAM: Okay, I'm going to do that, and as I'm doing
that, I'm pulling out my little clay cat's paw and
I'm going to hold Maximilian's Earthen Grasp. As
soon as I hear fish talking in the water, I'm
going to let it go.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I'm going to step out of the water, by the
way, for my movement.
MATT: Okay, you step back. That ends your turn,
Caleb, as you're holding your action. Molly?
TALIESIN: I'm going to (retching), and throw up
for a second, because I got vertigo because I lost
Haste. And that's my turn.
MATT: Nott?
SAM: I'll take one more swig, and I'll jump in the
water.
MATT: With your movement, you get most of the way
across on the rope, but you can bonus action to dash.
SAM: Bonus action dash!
MATT: With that, Nott just barely emerges from the
distant pool of water.
SAM: Where are they?! Let me at them! I'll save
you all!
MATT: You don't see any monsters.
SAM: Get this water off me! Ah!
MATT: Nott's splashing behind you.
SAM: I'll shake like a dog.
MATT: Perfect. Fjord.
TRAVIS: I'll reappear and take--
MATT: Whereabouts?
TRAVIS: Ten feet closer to Yasha's direction, on
land still. I will hold Eldritch Blast until I see
the reappearance of--
MATT: Good to know. Roll your dice.
TRAVIS: To hit for it? Oh. Aww, shitballs.
MARISHA: Oh no.
TRAVIS: 16. Ah ha-- (yelps)
MATT: Held actions and Blink can be a really
tricky thing.
TRAVIS: Show your fucking fa-- (yelps)
TALIESIN: Can you move while you're not blinked,
by the way?
TRAVIS: No.
SAM: Can you see into our world?
TRAVIS: I can see and hear and all that stuff.
MATT: It's like an ethereal-- like Frodo with the
ring on.
TRAVIS: Guys? (distressed yelp)
MATT: This is what Ripley used on you guys last
campaign.
TRAVIS: Fuck you, Molly!
MATT: That finishes Fjord's turn. Yasha, you're
up.
ASHLEY: Oh my god, okay. I'm going to hold-- I'm
going to stay where I'm at. I've got nothing to
attack so I'm just going to hold my turn until I,
you know.
MATT: Hold your action in case something shows
up?
ASHLEY: Yeah, in case something shows up in the
water and then I can--
MATT: That ends your turn. That brings us the
merrow shallow priest's turn. As you're all
focusing on this element, a small ripple of water
emerges over here as it has swum down below the
water.
LIAM: Cat's Paw!
MATT: Cat's Paw. What does it have to roll for it?
LIAM: 16. Strength.
MATT: 16 strength?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Does it get a saving throw, you mean? A
strength saving throw?
LIAM: "On a failed save, the target must make a
strength saving throw." Versus my 16.
MATT: That is an eight. No.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
(meowing)
MATT: It is currently restrained, right?
LIAM: And it takes 2d6 damage. Bludgeoning
damage.
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: Five points of bludgeoning damage.
LAURA: That's a really big cat paw.
LIAM: It's so big.
MATT: Yeah, it's gargantuan. All right, how much
damage was that?
LIAM: Six total.
MATT: Six total damage.
LIAM: So a big muddy claw sinks into its tail and
pulls it down in place.
MATT: At which point it's holding its staff still
and (hissing), spins its arm around. A level two
Thunderwave bursts out in front of it in a 15-foot
cube, hitting both Beau and Caleb. I need you both
to make a constitution saving throw, please.
LIAM: The damage doesn't do anything to its
spellcasting ability, does it?
MATT: No.
LIAM: Okay. So what do I take?
MATT: A constitution saving throw.
MARISHA: 17 for me.
MATT: That is a success, so you take half damage.
LIAM: I'm not going to make this. Eight.
MATT: Nope. That is 17 points of thunder damage.
You take half of that, so you take eight.
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, just Caleb. She's still up.
LIAM: Yeah, I'm out.
MATT: You're still up?
MARISHA: I'm still up.
SAM: Cat's Paw's gone.
MATT: Cat's Paw's gone. Caleb's unconscious. Easy
come, easy go. Beau, you are thrown ten feet back
into the wall there as the smoke dissipates from
the Thunderwave. Wham! Into the wall and fall to
one knee. Let's see. No, that's all of its
movement. It took all of its movement to get
there, so that's where it stands. That's going to
end its turn. Beau.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Turn this man into fish sticks.
MARISHA: (grunts) I'm a little out of-- it knocked
the wind out of me.
MATT: Oh, it has to make a constitution saving
throw to see if it maintains the thunderstorm
above. Which it succeeds.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to go for this mother.
I'm going to run up towards it, once again parkour
off of that little-- yeah, and give a nice flying
Superman punch and then an uppercut.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: First hit. All right, I'll take that 21.
MATT: You're technically in the water, so the
attacks are at disadvantage.
MARISHA: Okay. 16.
MATT: 16 still hits.
MARISHA: That's ten damage.
MATT: Ten damage. Got it.
MARISHA: Second attack. 16 for the first one. 16
again total.
MATT: All right, that hits again. Second attack.
MARISHA: 12 damage.
MATT: 12 damage. Two constitution saving throws.
That's a success, and a success, so it's still
maintaining concentration on the lightning storm.
MARISHA: And bonus attack. Not good. Nine to hit.
MATT: It swings wide. It's laughing under its
hissing breath as you're punching, and it's
starting to try and slowly submerge into the
water.
MARISHA: (panting) I'm losing steam. That's my
turn.
MATT: That brings us to Jester.
LAURA: I'm going to run to the other side of
Beau.
MATT: Right here?
LAURA: Yeah, so I'm flanking it.
MATT: Over here, you mean?
LAURA: Yeah. I wouldn't be able to hit it from the
land, would I?
MATT: (counting) That's where you are, but you're
in the water right now. You're (splashing).
LAURA: Okay, so I would get a straight attack,
right?
MATT: Yes, you would.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to try to hit it with a
level three Inflict Wounds.
MATT: Go for it. You have disadvantage.
LAURA: Well, a straight because it's flanked.
MATT: You're flanking it, so it's a straight
attack, yes. You pull back (energy crackling).
LAURA: That's 11.
MATT: (fizzling) You reach up and right as you--
The dice are not with you. I'm so sorry, Laura.
I'm so sorry.
LAURA: No, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
SAM: These dice are wrong and bad dice and they
should be put away forever.
MATT: As you reach out with this crackling bolt of
looming necrotic energy, it manages to spin around
and a burst of wind immediately pushes your arm
just off course and it releases harmlessly in the
air. I'm sorry.
LIAM: At least you got an apology when you rolled
shit.
LAURA: Yeah, cool. I'm going to use Spiritual
Weapon at level two and then try to slam it down.
MATT: All right, roll for the attack on it.
LAURA: It's a level three Spiritual Weapon. It's a
natural one.
MATT: You cast it at level two earlier though. I'm
so sorry.
LAURA: No, I cast Spiritual Weapon at level
three.
MATT: No, it was level two at the beginning.
LAURA: No, I didn't. I cast it at level three. I
did.
MARISHA: We all went, "Whoa! Level three!"
TALIESIN: Yeah, there was a "whoa" there. We will
all get yelled at on the internet if we're wrong.
LAURA: Yes, it's three. It was level three. It
doesn't matter. I rolled a one.
MATT: I trust you guys.
ASHLEY: But for next time, when you kill it and
get a How Do You Want To Do This with it. Just in case.
MARISHA: How do you want to sweet tooth this?
LAURA: That's all I can do.
MATT: Sorry, Jester. That finishes your turn.
Caleb, I need you to make a death saving throw, please.
LIAM: Sure. Let's do this. That's a six.
MATT: That's a failure. First failed save on
Caleb.
MATT: All right. Molly, you have a turn now.
TALIESIN: Yes, I do.
LAURA: Yeah, laugh. Laugh it up. I'm pregnant!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Is it possible to make a leap across
some of water at the very least to try and get
back to land?
MATT: Make an athletics check.
MARISHA: A woman scorned by her dice.
TRAVIS: I know. I only see that at home.
TALIESIN: That's a ten?
MATT: No. You go (splashing) (counting) 30.
TALIESIN: I'm going to also then use my action to
dash.
MATT: (counting) 20. You get up there.
TALIESIN: And I'm within range?
MATT: Combat range, yes.
TALIESIN: I'm going to use my bonus action--
MATT: You can only use your bonus action to attack
if you've used your action to attack.
TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine. Wait. Double check,
because I thought that's just using my off-hand.
MATT: That's what I'm thinking, but I'll double
check what the rules are there.
TALIESIN: That's okay, I've got options. Sort of.
MATT: Every now and then you need a reminder,
folks.
SAM: Did Laura go to deliver the baby right now?
TRAVIS: Yeah, just real quick.
MATT: "When you take the Attack action and attack
with a light melee weapon that you're holding in
"one hand, you can use a bonus action--" If you
don't attack, you cannot bonus action attack.
TALIESIN: Okay. That's fine. I'm going to try
something weird, hold on. Since that's not going
to work, can I take Enthrall? I'm going to take
Enthrall. I'm going to try and use Enthrall.
MATT: Is it an action or a bonus action to use?
Because you've used your action this turn.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's true. I'm trying to see.
MATT: I believe Enthrall as a spell is an action.
TALIESIN: It might be it. Yeah, it's an action,
never mind. Vicious Mockery.
MATT: Vicious Mockery, I believe, is also an
action.
TALIESIN: Oh my god, everything is an action. I
have no bonus actions or anything reasonable that
I can do.
MATT: But you're in melee.
TALIESIN: I'm in melee. That's fine.
MATT: That ends your turn, Molly. Nott.
SAM: Seeing my friend Caleb down, I'm filled with
a mighty rage and I will draw my crossbow, load my
Burning Bolt, and run at it screaming and
firing.
MATT: (counting) It's within 20 feet. As you're
running out of the water, (screaming)
(splashing).
SAM: That's a 20 to hit?
MATT: That hits. Roll damage with the additional
Burning Bolt.
SAM: (counting) Fury of the Small, 21, plus the
Burning Bolt is another three. 24 total?
MATT: 24 points of damage.
SAM: On the first hit.
MATT: It has to make a constitution saving throw
to see if it maintains. No, it does not. It drops
the lightning.
TALIESIN: That alone.
MARISHA: That will keep Caleb alive.
SAM: Is it still alive?
MATT: Yeah. Next attack.
SAM: Bonus action, shot. 22 to hit?
MATT: That hits. Roll damage.
SAM: It's just one now. Another eight points.
MATT: The shallow priest is looking hurt.
MARISHA: Shallow priest?
MATT: It's a merrow shallow priest.
TALIESIN: Very shallow. Really hot Instagram
account, though.
MATT: Does that finish your turn, Nott?
SAM: That's it.
MATT: Fjord.
TRAVIS: I'll reappear ten feet closer to Jester.
Yep. And I'll unleash two Eldritch Blasts.
MATT: Ten feet right there.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Beach priest.
TRAVIS: That's not going to hit. That's a ten.
MATT: Goes wide, strikes a nearby rock.
TRAVIS: And that's a 14 on the dot.
MATT: 14 misses.
TRAVIS: Oh, it does, that's right.
MATT: This one has higher armor than the rest. As
you release both bolts, it's flailing around, hurt
after taking the impact from the bolts. You can see
the burst of flame on its back from the shot it
took from Nott, and as it lurches forward, it
manages to arc out of the way of your bolt. No
impact.
TRAVIS: Oh, roll to see--
MATT: Roll to see if you stick around.
TRAVIS: I disappear. (bamfing noise)
MARISHA: Oh god! You're cutting out, Fjord, I
can't--
TRAVIS: You guys are doing good-- (bamfing noise).
TALIESIN: Take ten feet to the right. I can't--
MATT: Lag spikes are rough when you're on a
raid, guys.
LIAM: This is like those Tatasciore spells. Like
(mimics cutting out).
MATT: Top of the round. Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: I'm going to go around to-- Can I flank
him? Behind or somewheres?
LIAM: Front of Molly.
MATT: Right now? No, the space right there where
technically it is-- I'll say you can get up on
there, sure. Using all your movement, you can get
on there. It's a little wobbly.
ASHLEY: Then, you know, attack.
MATT: No. Hold on, Beau was in the water. This
technically is not a space you can get on. You
would not be able to flank with it. You can get
there if you want to. Because this is in the space.
ASHLEY: It's not considered flanking?
MATT: No, because you have to be on the exact
opposite. That space is currently occupied by the
stalagmite.
ASHLEY: That's fine. Okay.
MATT: You're in the water, so disadvantage on your
attacks.
ASHLEY: Disadvantage. Okay.
LAURA: I didn't even realize I was sitting here
like---
ASHLEY: 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
MARISHA: It's like this little dark cloud right
over you.
TRAVIS: Come on, Yasha.
LAURA: Kill it, Yasha.
ASHLEY: I'm going to try.
LIAM: That's what you do.
ASHLEY: Nine.
LIAM: Yasha.
TRAVIS: Nein!
ASHLEY: 12 for the first hit.
MATT: Nice.
LIAM: Come on, buddy.
ASHLEY: Okay. 20?
MATT: 20 hits. Roll damage for your second
strike.
ASHLEY: 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage. It is so close. It is
hurt so bad. As you slash twice, in the water, you
see these large arcs of stale, stagnant cave water
splashing in the air with this gleaming blade as
Yasha's tearing into it. The pool around it is
turning dark purple as its blood is seeping in and
it's looking desperately around for some means of
escape. That end your turn, Yasha?
ASHLEY: Yeah. I don't think I can't do anything
else.
MATT: It's now the shallow priest's turn.
LAURA: Oh no. Thunderwave.
SAM: Oh no, you're all grouped together.
MATT: Yeah. That's what it's going to do. Level
two Thunderwave.
LIAM: Would Caleb have flown backwards when he was
struck before?
MATT: Hmm?
LIAM: When Caleb was knocked down by Thunderwave
the first time, would he have been thrown
backwards?
MATT: It would have thrown you back into the wall.
There's nowhere more for you to push this way.
LIAM: Oh, I thought--
SAM: Oh no. Is he within the cube?
TALIESIN: Well, it depends where the cube goes.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's a direction. It's not a cube
around you, it's a-- you have to shoot it.
TRAVIS: It's shallow priest discretion. What will
he do? Look as the DM muddles his choices.
Considers consequences. Plans his retribution.
SAM: Decides to kill Liam forever.
TALIESIN: If he wants to escape, he's got to knock
us all back.
TRAVIS: As his hair dangles beautifully in front
of his face. Thinks-- (singing) I'm in another
dimension!
MARISHA: Doing the Charleston.
MATT: The placement here makes it a little hairy.
It's going to go ahead and--
SAM: That's only three squares, right?
MATT: It's a fifteen-foot cube. In front of you.
And it's trying to-- Yeah, you guys are positioned
in such a way where it--
SAM: It doesn't have to be in front of you.
It says in any direction.
MATT: Well yeah, but you can't be part of a cube,
and I'm trying to figure out what would be the
most optimal way for it to use it. I'm going to
say--
TALIESIN: It's going to be the two of us, I think.
Yeah, that's my money.
MATT: No, the ones who are hurt the most are Beau
and Yasha and they've been the biggest problem for
these guys. It's not too worried about the other
two. 15-foot cube. Okay. All right, you know what?
It's going to go ahead and attempt to shift this
way one square, into the space with the Spiritual
Weapon.
TALIESIN: So it gets an attack of opportunity
from--
MATT: From Yasha.
LAURA: And from Jester.
MATT: And from Jester. Both of you guys, make an
attack. With disadvantage for you, Yasha. It's
risky on its endeavor, but it's what's going to
give it an opportunity to try and get out of this
lockdown.
ASHLEY: It hits.
MATT: What'd you roll?
ASHLEY: I rolled a 16 and a 21.
MATT: Okay, 16 hits.
ASHLEY: That's just a regular attack.
MATT: Yeah, regular attack.
LAURA: I rolled a 15.
MATT: 15 just hits.
TRAVIS: So if you hit with your Sentinel does that
mean its speed is reduced to zero?
MATT: Yep. It can't move. So with Sentinel, it
does not get a chance to move as you arc towards
it. How much damage did you do?
ASHLEY: Nine.
MATT: Nine.
LAURA: Five.
MATT: Five. How do you two want to do this?
(cheering)
LAURA: I go low, you go high?
ASHLEY: Yeah!
LAURA: All right. I go low with the handaxe.
MATT: Okay. So as you swing with the handaxe and
you swing with the sword as it backs away,
charging the energy of the Thunderwave in its
hands, it tries to slink through the water, the
blade of your handaxe carves into its throat from
this side (painful grunt). At which point the
blade hits from this side (slurp). And like a
terrible scene out of Riki-Oh, because I have not
used that reference in this campaign, the body
gets split in two sides and you watch as it falls
to the ground in three separate pieces, (thuds)
all sinking beneath the water below.
ASHLEY: See ya!
TRAVIS: Wouldn't want to be ya!
ASHLEY: Oh my god. Can we grab some of the stuff
before he goes into the water?
SAM: You're looting him before he--
ASHLEY: Yeah, before he sinks down.
LIAM: Should I make another death save?
MATT: Yes you do, Caleb. That's cocked.
LIAM: That's an 11.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I go-- Are we still in initiative order?
MATT: Right now, at this point, there is no
threat.
TRAVIS: Can I Blink back in and go, stop!
MATT: Yes. You drop the spell.
TRAVIS: (panting)
LAURA: I'm going to Cure Wounds Caleb.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and heal up for that.
LAURA: I'm going to be so pissed off though, about
nothing working. I'm just going to touch him with
my toes.
(laughter)
MATT: The last slab of its flesh that you had
carved from its head and shoulder area you push
into the water, kicking it forward.
LAURA: Oh, that's good. 12 points of healing.
MATT: So, Caleb, you heal 12 hit points.
LIAM: Thank you. (groans) Ow.
SAM: Not attractive.
TRAVIS: Can I make my way over and up the steps?
TALIESIN: I'll join you.
MATT: We'll say as you guys gather to go ahead and
deal with the aftermath of this battle, we're
going to take a break.
(cheering)
MATT: Because there is time to take a break. We'll
be back here in just a little bit, guys.
TRAVIS: Good shit, man. Good shit.
MARISHA: Look, there's condensation on the map.
LAURA: I know, it's really cool.
MATT: Apologies for the humming of the motor from
earlier. This is the first time trying it out.
Didn't really need it. It was fine. But yes, so.
We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. We'll
see you in a little bit.
MATT: Welcome back, everybody! Carefully clapping,
so not to clap too much.
LIAM: No, you got to just do this.
MATT: Hi everyone. Welcome back. Before we jump
into the story, real fast, we wanted to say a quick
hello from a friend of ours who stopped by the
office and tonight's studio to say hello. Babs
Tarr, the very, extremely talented comic book
artist for many different comic series. Incredibly
talented and is very much a Critter along with us
and stopped in to say hi!
BABS: Thanks for having me, guys!
MATT: Of course, thanks for coming by! Where can
they find you?
BABS: Oh, babsbabsbabs.com or @babsdraws on
Instagram and Twitter. Check it out, guys!
LIAM: Check out her book, Motor Crush!
BABS: Thank you! Yes, Motor Crush Volume 2 just
came out, so check it out.
MARISHA: And your nails are amazing.
MATT: Thank you, Babs.
BABS: Bye, guys!
ASHLEY: She did that and I was like, ooh!
MARISHA: So blue!
MATT: Picking up where we left off. You guys rush
to pull Caleb off the ground. You're all beaten,
battered--
MARISHA: I'm standing right there, so I'll get you
up.
LAURA: I'm going to use my Pearl of Power to
regain a 3rd-level spell and then I'm going to use
Prayer of Healing on everyone. So everyone I can
see within my range. So everybody get within 30
feet of me! I'll do 3d8 of healing for everybody.
SAM: Wow!
LAURA: Seriously? (shouting) Seriously!
TRAVIS: Think of the baby! Stay calm.
LIAM: A one, a one, and a two.
TALIESIN: Oh, wow.
MATT: Laura.
LAURA: (shrieks through gritted teeth) So eight
points of healing, you guys, for that level three spell.
ASHLEY: Okay, but that's still--
SAM: I didn't even need it because I wasn't hurt
at all in the fight.
MARISHA: Can I take your eight points?
TRAVIS: Seven points of healing?
MATT: Eight points of healing.
ASHLEY: I'll take it.
LAURA: (muffled shrieking)
SAM: The baby can hear all of this.
LAURA: This game's going to make me go into
labor!
MARISHA: What if it does, you guys?
MATT: No, we need her for as long as we can keep
her.
MARISHA: That'd be so magical.
LAURA: I'm not really mad. I'm fine.
SAM: Roll for dilation.
TRAVIS: Roll low.
MATT: Anyway. Your wounds close up a bit through
the incantation.
LAURA: The smallest amount.
LIAM: You look pretty bad.
MARISHA: You look pretty shitty, too.
LIAM: I'm good.
MARISHA: Your shave is still very nice, though.
LIAM: What's that stuff up there? I'm going to
start hobbling towards the bottom of the stony steps.
SAM: I'll help him.
MARISHA: Caleb, do you-- yeah, all right.
LAURA: Check for traps, you guys!
SAM: Oh, okay! I can do that. Are there any boxes
or treasure chests?
MATT: You see remnants of crates and broken goods
littered across the rough staircase, now that you
take a moment to inspect it. Make an investigation
check if you want to glance about the space.
SAM: With disadvantage!
MATT: Yes, because you are drunk.
SAM: That's an eight.
MATT: You find some broken pieces of pottery, it
seems like. Nice, polished on one side, with a
nice glaze.
SAM: I'll take those.
MATT: You can write down in your inventory "broken
pieces of shiny pottery." Fjord?
TRAVIS: Can I pick up his big trident that has the
cord attached to it? Is it wrapped around his
wrist, or anything? Is that how he was pulling
people?
MATT: If you look at the trident, it looks like
it's a very tightly woven rope, but the individual
threads of rope are treated like a leather-type
stat, so it's a really tight leather cord.
TRAVIS: Is it attached to his person in some way?
MATT: From what you can see, where it was dangling
from there, they're wrapped in a loose loop around
the side of their armor, and when they throw it,
they catch the end of it and pull it back.
TRAVIS: I'll take the trident and unhook it from
his armor.
MATT: Okay. It's about 60 feet of leather cord, if
you want to call it that. Sturdy leather cord.
It's heavy, so it's about twice the weight of hemp
rope. It's stronger, but it's heavier.
TRAVIS: These guys were big.
MATT: Yeah, they're pretty strong.
MARISHA: Can I take a short rest while everyone's
doing this?
MATT: If you guys want to take a short rest, if
you guys are inspecting the rest of the area.
TRAVIS: Yeah, y'all look for shit. I'm going to
meditate for a hot second.
SAM: If you're going to meditate, maybe go back
and check on the little bird?
TRAVIS: Where did you leave her?
SAM: I think she's okay, I left her in an
invisible-- I made a false rock.
LAURA: I go into the water to look for her.
MATT: Jester, as you come back into the next
chamber, you're looking around and there's no sign
of Kiri. You see natural stone, the pool, a piece
of wall to the side, and there's no sign.
LAURA: Oh no! She's been taken! Kiri! Kiri!
MATT: (like Jester) "I'm Kiri!" You look around
and you don't see anything.
LAURA: Kiri? Where are you? Are you invisible?
MATT: (like Jester) "Yes, I'm very sweet!"
LAURA: Oh, Kiri! I'm going to find you. Say
"warmer" or "colder," and I start walking around
the room. Warmer?
MATT: (like Jester) "Warmer?" You slowly start
making your way towards this weird cylindrical
stone wall that you now realize wasn't there
before.
LAURA: This is a weird-looking wall.
MATT: You reach through and your hand goes right
into a tuft of feathers. (startled chirping)
LAURA: Kiri!
MATT: Kiri reaches up and grabs your hand, and you
pull her through the illusion. She steps out and
goes, (like Cali) "I killed people!"
LAURA: Good for you! I did too, just barely. It
was a bad day for me, Kiri.
MATT: Kiri points to one of the bodies of the
merrow that you had killed the night before that's
barely visible out of the water there. It looks
like it has a couple stab wounds to it, and Kiri's like--
LAURA: Did you go stab a dead person?
MATT: (chirping)
LAURA: We should probably teach you that's not the
coolest thing to do, I don't think, but it's fine
that you did it this time. I'm sure he didn't feel
it. But probably if we're in a place where other
people are around, we probably shouldn't stab
people that are already hurt.
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay, okay, okay."
LAURA: I mean, no, that's a lie. Unless they are
attacking you. Don't stab people that are
dead-dead.
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay, okay, okay."
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.
LIAM: I realize something in a panic and I trudge
through the water back towards the entrance and I
pull out the wire and I put it in my hands and I
cast Message and say to Jester: Please, please,
please get my books and put them in your bag,
please?
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: Make an investigation check, Jester.
LAURA: Watch me roll a fucking 20 on this.
TALIESIN: Oh god no.
LAURA: Oh god no. That was cocked, and I just
moved it. Oh good, that's worse. Four.
MATT: As you spend a moment searching around in
the middle of the dirt with no luck, there's a
little knock on your shoulder with a pointed
finger. You glance over and Kiri has the book
bundle, the leather strap--
LAURA: Were you holding those the whole time?
MATT: (chirping) Points to the side corner.
LAURA: Put those books in this pink bag, okay? All
right.
TRAVIS: Are there any stairways, or doors, or
gates, or anything that would lead upwards from
this cavern?
MATT: If you want to start inspecting the area: up
the stairs, there's a platform above where there's
more of the boxes and crates and there's piles of
things gathered around some sort of rock
formation, where that mist seems to be emanating
from, which is still loosely drifting off of the
surface of the water.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll take a closer look.
MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: 14, okay. You can see scattered bits of gold
and silver and copper that have been lost amongst
the steps here, some of them covered in dirt or
mud and can be cleaned and pulled out of there. As
you ascend the steps, if anybody wants to join
Fjord as well? You go with him as well? You also
see there's a bunch of silverware thrown around.
Very nice, fine silverware that is, in many cases,
partially packed with more mud, sand, and whatever
grime is here. It looks like everything was
brought here, and largely a number of it has been
discarded or left with no particular purpose. As
you begin to pore through some of it, you see
there's a crate that's partially open. There's a
cache of weapons in there that are bound in
clusters with leather straps around them. Looking
there, there are four well-made longswords, four
well-made shortswords, two battleaxes, and two
halberds that are part of this cache. They're
resting open on the inside of this open crate.
There's a locked, dark wood case, about four feet
across and a foot wide, that is currently closed
and latched. There's also a locked iron box that's
flat, a foot and a half by a foot and a half. It's
simple, steel, iron look to it. Then there's the
stone formation that's about six to ten foot at
different places. It's a bit oblong and strange.
It's not a perfect oval, but it's made to be this
pool of water, where the mist is rising and
sifting out of it. Around the edges of it, there
are dozens and dozens of metallic objects of
different shapes and configurations and designs.
Make a religion check.
TRAVIS: Natural 19, for 21.
MATT: You recognize a majority of the iconography
here. It looks like one of these bundles-- one of
these boxes that was gathered here-- was filled
with holy symbols and religious iconography, most
of which appear to be deities that are outlawed by
the Empire. You see symbols and worship idols for
the Archeart. You see some for Avandra, the
Changebringer. You see a number of Moonweaver holy
symbols with the two crescent moons across the
silver cross. You see the hook and the wreath of
the Wildmother, Melora, a number of those
scattered about, some in disrepair, with actual
pieces of dried barley and other grains around it.
You see a number of symbols of Kord, the
Stormlord. You see a handful for the Everlight.
There are a few more dubious symbols as well.
There's one that looks like a dark, horned crown
that you recognize that is used to invoke
Asmodeus, the Lord of the Hells. You see one that
looks like-- you only see a few of these, but it
looks like a series of chains and shackles that
are across a coffin-like box, and you know that,
because you rolled super high, to represent Bane,
the Strife Emperor, who is a deity of conquest.
SAM: Let's hear it, Liam.
LIAM: (Bane voice) "Your punishment will be more
severe."
MATT: There it is.
MARISHA: You were waiting for it!
MATT: As well as the clawed hand on a number of
items that resemble Tiamat, the Scaled Tyrant.
TRAVIS: You guys, come up here. There's a ton of
arms up here. There's battleaxes and swords, but
there's all these trinkets and holy symbols.
LIAM: Are you being careful up there?
TRAVIS: Careful?
LIAM: Yeah, you know. Nott could have a look
around, I could have a look around once Jester
returns with my books.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I actually wouldn't mind if you
check for magic. And Nott, actually, there's this
four-foot long box if you want to try and open her
up for me.
MATT: Jester, you return. Did you take Kiri with
you?
LAURA: I'll have her hold on to my belt as we
swim.
SAM: Is it locked?
TRAVIS: I think so. It looks to be latched shut in
some way.
MATT: At this point, you hear a distant sound that
echoes through the wall (fluttering). You spin and
look over and you can see Jester emerging from the
water and a little black bird that is currently
fluttering to try to get the water off the
feathers.
LIAM: I start speed wading back. (stuttering) Are
my books dry?
LAURA: Oh yeah, I put them in my coat. Don't
worry, they're fine.
LIAM: But can I see them?
LAURA: Yeah. Just kidding. They're in the bag.
Don't worry.
LIAM: Are they dry?
MATT: They're dry.
LIAM: They're dry. Okay.
MATT: Nott, what were you looking at?
SAM: There's a locked box?
TRAVIS: The four-foot long one.
MATT: Yeah, there's two boxes.
SAM: Two boxes?
TRAVIS: The iron one and the wooden one.
LIAM: I recommend that you allow me to check for
magical problems. Then once we know what's what,
then you go in. But that takes about ten minutes.
SAM: Okay. Yes. Sounds good to me.
TRAVIS: Yeah, sure. We're kind of in the middle of
a short rest anyways.
LIAM: So I will pull out my spellbook and I will
use ritual casting to cast Detect Magic.
MATT: Okay. As you focus, there is a-- as you look
over, there is a faint magical aura from inside
the pool where the mist is emanating, and the long
wooden box emanates a magical source from the
inside.
TALIESIN: Is the staff that the--
MATT: You'd have to try and retrieve the body. It
sunk into the water.
TALIESIN: We grabbed it before it sank.
MATT: The staffed one? Okay. As you pull the staff
over, the staff does not have any magical
properties. It looked like it was just a focus for
whatever spellcasting it was doing. Make an
investigation check as you were going back to the
body.
LIAM: There's a glow in the water as well?
MATT: If you want.
LIAM: Well, I'm not doing anything. I'm just
saying.
MATT: You feel a magical presence within the pool.
Not the pool itself, but within. And the mist is
still pouring over the edges of it.
ASHLEY: The pool that's up at the--
MATT: Yeah, the upper platform.
MARISHA: I like having codenames.
LAURA: Are you looking? Who's looking?
SAM: I'll try-- Should I try to open the box?
TRAVIS: He's still doing his magic circle or
whatever.
LIAM: We know that there is something magical in
the pool itself and then you said the long wooden
box is glowing?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: What kind of magic is coming off of the
wooden box?
MATT: Enchantment.
LIAM: Enchantment.
LAURA: (exaggerated cockney accent) Enchantment!
MATT: (exaggerated cockney accent) Enchantment!
Hi, Yuri.
TALIESIN: I'll take a look in there. I'll walk
towards the pool at the very least. I'm going to
pick up any of the Moonweaver pieces.
MATT: Make an investigation check as you pore
through and find as many as you want to.
LIAM: I don't believe that there is any kind of
protection or magical lock on that. So, yeah, try
to pick the lock from a distance.
LAURA: Ooh, what are all these things, Molly?
TALIESIN: I'm not entirely sure, but they're very,
very nice.
MATT: Are you glancing through as well?
LAURA: Yeah. I want to find something for the
Traveler.
MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: Is this on the priest? The shallow
priest?
MATT: This is the pile of religious iconography.
LAURA: 11.
MATT: 11. Okay. Because--
TALIESIN: Also 11.
MATT: All right. You find-- and there's a number
of these. You see, probably, in total, well over
100 to 120 various holy symbols, idols, small
representations pressed into metal or clay. These
are all means of worship from a grand scale to a
pauper scale that seem to have been part of what
was moving through this smuggling path.
LAURA: I'm looking for the Traveler's symbol.
MATT: Which you find two.
(gasps)
MATT: You, who have never met anybody else who has
ever met the Traveler, you look down and find
amongst this pile two holy symbols of different
make. One appears to be almost pure silver. One
looks like it's a little more of a burnished
bronze or a dull iron that's very, very heavily
tarnished. But they both have the same door arch
with the road expanding from the center.
LAURA: Whoa! Look!
SAM: What is it? What are they?
LAURA: Oh, I wasn't talking to you.
SAM: Oh, okay.
LAURA: Look!
TRAVIS: Who are you talking to, Jester?
LAURA: The Traveler! Lookit! You have symbols
here!
TALIESIN: It looks like a door.
LAURA: It is a door. He's a traveler. He travels.
TALIESIN: His symbol is a door?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Do you feel the Traveler in here?
LAURA: Well, if he is, he was fucking with me
earlier. Are you in here?
MATT: No response.
LAURA: I don't think so.
MARISHA: Do I see anything from Ioun? I hobble up,
crack my rib back in place.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: It's actually a little discomforting,
these symbols.
TALIESIN: I would say so.
MARISHA: You said investigation?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Ten.
MATT: You give a solid glance through and it looks
like, no. Ioun, the Knowing Mistress, is one of
the approved religions, and you get the sense that
all the symbols that are here are religions that
are unapproved by the Empire or considered
betrayer gods and are not approved anywhere.
TALIESIN: What do I find for the Moonweaver?
MATT: Oh, plenty of Moonweaver symbols. There's
probably a good 12 or 13.
TRAVIS: There's also some very dark deities here.
Asmodeus.
LAURA: Which ones are the bad ones?
TRAVIS: Asmodeus?
MATT: Asmodeus.
TRAVIS: Asmodeus, Bane the Strife Emperor,
Tiamat--
LAURA and MATT: (singing) Asmodeus, Asmodeus!
SAM: I'll cast Mage Hand from afar and try to
unlock the big box.
MATT: Go ahead and make your-- with disadvantage.
SAM: Oh, an 18 and a 19.
MATT: Oh, look at that! Even while drunk, little
Nott's able to--
LIAM: (sing-song) Do-de-do-de-do!
SAM: (sing-song)
Whoopie-doopie-doopie-doopie-doop, click!
TALIESIN: You did check for traps, right?
LAURA: Doesn't matter.
SAM: No, I'm opening it! Fuck off, grandpa!
TALIESIN: I'm going to sit back and watch.
LIAM: She's doing it from 30 feet away. Hopefully
that's enough.
MATT: The latch spins off, and a blade fires out
from where the lock was, shoots across the room,
and vanishes into the darkness before it scrapes
off some stone in the distance.
LAURA: Good job, Nott!
TALIESIN: Again!
MATT: It appears to be open. There's a slight gap
now where the lid is now open. You lift it up.
Looking inside, you see this beautiful
jewel-inlaid, curved golden blade of some kind.
With what little bit of light that you guys have at
your disposal now, you can see it shining and it's
this pure gold color. As you swing it for a
moment, it seems to bend with the movement before
flicking back into place.
LAURA: It's made of rubber.
MARISHA: It's the rubber pencil trick.
SAM: Is it a super long blade? Or is it like a
rapier-type thing?
MATT: It would constitute in the vein of a
scimitar.
TALIESIN: That looks very exciting. I'm going to
run over--
SAM: No, I don't think--
TALIESIN: Yeah, nope, no-- I'm pushing aside. I'm
going to try the weight.
MATT: It's pretty well-balanced. Lighter than you'd
expect. And gold is not a good metal for any sort
of combat. It's a soft metal and you see the
flexibility seems such but yet it'd probably hit
pretty hard, but you're a little worried about
using gold for any sort of combat scenario.
LAURA: Maybe it's ceremonial.
TALIESIN: Perhaps.
ASHLEY: Swing it around.
TALIESIN: I give it a swing.
MATT: Swings pretty solid.
ASHLEY: Want to hit me with it?
LAURA: No, wait! Let Caleb look at it. What if
it's super-duper cursed, Yasha?
SAM: We'll melt it down and sell it for raw gold.
TALIESIN: It's worth more as it is.
LIAM: That looks heavy, so first, you hold that.
Have we found everything? Also, while all that was
going on, I was looking for a jagged cross with
two crescent moons in it.
MATT: Yes, and you managed to find it. You find
probably about 6 or 7 different variations to the
Archeart's iconography.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Archeart?
LIAM: Of those 6 or 7 that I saw, I will take the
one that looks the most familiar to me from my
memory.
MATT: You find one that's pretty similar to the
one that you saw.
LIAM: I'm going to keep that.
MATT: You pocket it.
ASHLEY: I rolled a 13.
MATT: A 13 to--
ASHLEY: To look for a symbol of the Stormlord.
MATT: You find about four of them. Two of them are
medallions and one of them looks like a ceramic
marker that would be hung on a wall. One of them
looks like it was part of a latch on a small chest
and was torn from it. You see bits of rotted wood
on the back of it where it may have been
previously pressed in and bolted against the outside
of a chest.
MARISHA: Can I look around on the walls and on the
doors and, using my criminal background, see if I
see anything that's Thieves' Cant or smuggling
operation things?
MATT: Sure. Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: 23.
MATT: Okay. While you guys are having this
conversation, Beau is casing the joint here. There
are no hidden exits. In fact, you get the sense
that all the entrances and exits here are through
the various pools of water. You begin to think,
based on placement, that there's probably a
network of caverns here, and possibly more merrow
that exist in the vicinity of the lake, of the
Ounterloch beyond here.
TRAVIS: Can you describe what the Bane, the Strife
Emperor, symbol looks like?
MATT: Yes, actually. I can show you an image of
it.
LAURA: You know, there are a lot of shackles
around everywhere, right?
TRAVIS: Here?
TALIESIN: In general.
LAURA: Didn't we find, like, four manacles? And
there were four dead bodies, too, right in the
other room?
MARISHA: We keep finding dead skeletons.
ASHLEY: And also steal 185 gold, which we did not
disburse.
MATT: That is what you see. It's like an
upside-down, coffin-like design, with these chains
that cross over.
TRAVIS: It's just this little handheld thing?
MATT: Yes. It's roughly a little larger than your
palm.
TRAVIS: Can I toss it into the well?
MATT: Sure. It sinks down and for a moment, it
obscures, but you see this very faint yellowish
color on the bottom. It disappears into the pool.
LAURA: Why would you do that? Are you trying to
bring about this really weird god? Can I reach
in and try to get it out?
MATT: Sure. You reach in and you scour around and
your hand touches and finds the symbol. Next to
it, there's a polished stone about that big that's
resting in the silt at the bottom.
LAURA: Ooh. I reach in and grab that.
MATT: Okay. You pull out the stone, and as soon as
the water emerges from it, it's smooth. It looks
like a cat's eye. It has a yellowish color to it
and there are striations that refract light around
it. At one end, it looks like there was-- an impact
carved a line about three inches across on one side.
LIAM: Clearly that's what's glowing at the bottom
to my eyes?
MATT: It has a very faint yellowish glow.
LIAM: What kind of magic, school of magic, is it?
MATT: It's not a school of arcane magic.
LAURA: What is this? I still grab the other little
symbol.
MATT: Okay, symbol there.
LIAM: I don't know. I think you should put it--
LAURA: Want to look at it?
LIAM: Yeah, let's put it down with that sword that
we found, Mollymauk.
MARISHA: Does the groove in it look like it
matches the size of the blade of the sword?
MATT: She sets it down, and rests it there next to
the other symbol, at an angle. It doesn't look
like it matches the sword. The groove that's hewn
into it, what at first looked like it was impacted or
wounded by some sort of damage, upon closer look,
it looks intentionally placed or carved in. So you
have this cat's eye, yellowish sphere with this
three inch-wide, pointed oval line in the front.
LAURA: Looks like it's an eyeball.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Could be the end of a sending stone or
something.
TRAVIS: Did any of the shortswords, longswords,
battleaxes-- any of those register under Caleb's
magic sweep or they're just nicely made?
MATT: They're just well-made, like freshly made
and were being sent somewhere.
SAM: Should we take them all?
LIAM: Do you want to see something?
LAURA: I hold it up in front of my face.
SAM: Ah, you're a cyclops! Kill her!
LAURA: Can I see through it?
MATT: You cannot.
LIAM: Come with me, okay?
LAURA: All right.
LIAM: I'm going to lead Jester up to the top where
fish guy was at the beginning with his staff. Set
it down, and--
MATT: That's where you guys are standing right
now.
LIAM: We're already up there?
MATT: That's where you've removed from the pool.
LIAM: Yeah, I want to go up where all the little
thingies are.
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Let's set it down, just in case. Okay? Then
I pull out my spell book again and-- Will you hold
this for me?
LAURA: Of course I will. Thank you very much.
LIAM: Sit down with me. I rifle through the pages
to the right one for Identify and the sword is
down. Okay, I'm going to use this one. You can
see-- and I start showing the different glyphs and
I start the ritual.
MATT: Fjord. Something about that orb is very familiar.
SAM: He's teaching you magic. Listen carefully.
LAURA: I am.
SAM: You'll learn new spells this way.
LAURA: I'm listening.
SAM: What did he just say?
LAURA: He's not talking right now.
SAM: Oh, yes. Okay.
LAURA: He's muttering.
LIAM: So it takes ten minutes to make the spell.
MATT: Okay. So, while you're doing that.
TALIESIN: Is there one more box we haven't
opened?
MATT: There is one more metal box that's not been
opened.
SAM: Should I open it?
TALIESIN: You should check for traps and open it.
SAM: All right. I'll finger it from afar.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LAURA: Are we far enough away from it?
MATT: With disadvantage, because you are drunk.
SAM: It's a one.
MATT: Okay. Seems fine.
SAM: I'll open it.
TALIESIN: In theory, we've moved it aside.
MATT: All right. Disadvantage, to try and open the
lock.
SAM: What is this, thieves' tools?
MATT: Thieves' tools. So it's dexterity plus your
proficiency bonus.
SAM: I'll never figure this out. Dexterity plus--
LAURA: Proficiency.
SAM: I rolled a ten.
LAURA: So 17.
MATT: 17? That'll do it. You needed a 16. The iron
box opens. Nothing goes off; no blades, no traps.
On the inside, you see a beautifully smithed sword
handle and hilt made from silver with an
acorn-sized emerald set on each side of the hilt,
right in the center.
TALIESIN: Oh, let's put that in the pile.
SAM: There's no blade?
MATT: The blade extends for an inch before it's
broken off at a jagged angle.
TALIESIN: Let's put that in the pile, too.
MARISHA: An inch?
MATT: There's an inch of the blade. It seems to
have broken off at some point.
LAURA: Is it magic?
LIAM: I thought it was just the long box that we
already opened.
SAM: Well, this was a metal box.
MATT: Right. You did not sense any magic from
this.
LAURA: (gasps) Can I use Mending on it?
LIAM: If the box was solid enough, that's true.
MATT: You attempt to cast Mending on this?
LAURA: On the sword.
MATT: Strangely, it resists it.
TRAVIS: Oh, put that shit in the pile.
LAURA: Yeah. Okay.
MATT: There's something about it. Even though it
didn't emanate a magical essence from what he was
requesting, the Mending spell, for some reason, is
unable to grasp the nature of this object to
complete it.
LIAM: I would think there would be enough time
overlap, though, for Detect Magic to still have
one or two minutes left before we get to the end
of Identify. So if that is brought over, do I
notice any sort of glow from--
MATT: No magical essence from it, but as you're
looking over it, beyond just the beautiful make of
it, you do see runes carved across the hilt and at
the pommel. It looks like at one point it was an
enchanted blade, but was sundered and is missing
the rest.
LIAM: Okay. So I mutter. I pause my chanting and
say: I will take a look at that in a moment. Hold
on. And finish my 11 minutes of ritual casting.
TRAVIS: I'm not going to interrupt, but that
sphere looks very--
LAURA: Like an eyeball.
TRAVIS: Yeah, famili-- Do you mind if I-- is it
wet?
LIAM: Wait. Is anyone going to interrupt me before
I get to the end of Identify?
SAM: No. Let's wait in real time. 11 minutes.
LIAM: Yeah?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Roll initiative.
MARISHA: It doesn't look like the gash in the orb
is deeper than the length of the blade that's left,
correct?
MATT: I'm sorry. What was that?
LIAM: Just a bunch of sexual innuendo, Matt.
ASHLEY: But what about the other sword?
MATT: What was your question?
MARISHA: The-- god damn it.
SAM: No. He said before that it didn't look like
the blade made the gash in the eye.
MARISHA: But this was a different blade.
ASHLEY: That was a different blade, though.
MARISHA: There are two blades.
LIAM: Yes. There's a complete blade that's magic.
MARISHA: But I'm just wondering if it fits. Never
mind.
MATT: Oh, fits the--
MARISHA: Let him finish the damn spell.
TRAVIS: If it fits the gash in the side of the
sphere.
MARISHA: The sphere. The broken hilt.
MATT: No. The carve in the sphere is about three
inches long. The blade looks like it would've been
about two inches wide and it's broken off at a
jagged side angle.
LIAM: Caleb is furrowing his brow at everybody
arguing about this as he's 30 seconds away from
ending.
MARISHA: Stop! Con-cen-trate! Con-cen-trate!
LIAM: Lost. Gone.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'll help Jester look around. Maybe
we see a broken blade somewhere while he finishes that.
LIAM: Jester's holding my spell book.
LAURA: I know. I pass it over to Nott. Here. I'm
not learning anything.
MARISHA: Jester and I do a quick scan to see if we
can find the broken blade.
MATT: Okay. Investigation check. Either both of
you roll, or one of you roll with advantage. Up to you.
LAURA: Take advantage.
MARISHA: Do you see anything? Take advantage? A
nine and a ten? It's okay. 15.
MATT: 15. Looking around, you see no sign of any
other half of the blade, broken or not.
TALIESIN: It was in a case, so I suppose it would
be unlikely. Or if it was on its way somewhere,
it was probably on the way to the other end of it.
LAURA: I walk back over to Caleb.
MATT: Okay. Anybody else? Okay.
MARISHA: What do you find out?
MATT: So you finish casting Identify on--
LIAM: On sword and cat's eye. It's whatever's
sitting in my little--
MATT: All right. The sword is not magical, and so
it does not give you any essence as to what
enchantment it is. Looking at the runes, you could
see that there was once held magic--
LIAM: The complete sword?
MATT: Oh, the finished one? Sorry, I
misunderstood. That, yes.
LIAM: All this shit doesn't exist, so sometimes
it's hard to tell what we're talking about.
MATT: I'm sorry.
LAURA: It exists, Liam.
MATT: That, you do have immediate grasp of what it
is capable of.
LIAM: This blade is called Summer's Dance.
MARISHA: (singing) Ooh, I want to dance with
somebody.
MARISHA, SAM, and LAURA: (singing) I want to feel
the heat with somebody!
LIAM: Mr. Mollymauk?
TALIESIN: Mr. Caleb.
LIAM: I feel like this might be good for you.
There is a kind of magic that I do not even
possess that allows you to vanish from one point
and reappear in another, and this blade will allow
you to do it.
TALIESIN: (maniacal laughter) You're going to get
yours, oh yes.
LIAM: It is a very fine blade. It is more lethal
than a regular blade and will allow you to poof,
poof, poof.
TALIESIN: I'll be living the dream.
LIAM: You can all argue over it, but I hand it to
Mollymauk. As well as the cat's eye.
MATT: Okay, so you begin concentrating another ten
minutes on the cat's eye.
LIAM: Is it one spell, one item?
MATT: You choose one object to cast on.
LIAM: Okay, next.
MATT: So wait another ten minutes.
TRAVIS: While he's concentrating on it, can I sit
down next to him and touch it?
MATT: Sure.
SAM: Touch it, meaning his penis.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: You're welcome, internet.
MATT: As Caleb's concentrating on it, you reach
out and touch the stone. Your body immediately
goes cold.
SAM: Oh! He's dead, he died.
LIAM: Could have waited 11 minutes, but no.
MATT: Your vision vanishes from your eyes as
darkness fills your world. Your lids itch like
some sand or dirt now scrapes the inside of the
skin, and you rub them with your wrist. Your eyes
open to find yourself somewhere else. The sky is
moonlit and cloudless, the starry night looking
down at you. Your clothes are not your own, nor is
your body. A thick, brown leather overcoat lined
in buckles wraps around your torso while
sun-weathered human skin marks your flesh. You
notice your hands are dirty and thick with
calluses as you clutch the very same yellow,
polished stone in your left hand. Looking down,
you see the body of the individual who was its
previous owner, now still in a pool of crimson
dark. You glance around the place, some
jungle-grown natural landmass by a pond. The smell
of seawater is strong on the wind in the middle of
the night. Flash-- in your right hand grasps the
familiar falchion, water dripping from the blade.
A voice booms into your mind: "Potential." A
sudden, uncontrollable hunger overcomes you as you
instinctually jam the stone into your gut. It
slowly sinks into your human flesh painlessly. As
it's being pushed into your torso: "Consume." As
it quickly vanishes within your belly, the hunger
subsides as exhaustion takes over. You fall to
your knees and look within the water, your
reflection familiar, but not your own: Vandrin.
"Reward." Just as quickly as the vision came, in
the blink of an eye, it's gone, your reflection
now that of the familiar half-orc, looking into
the pool where the stone was found, but the stone
is gone. The rest of you guys watched, in the
middle of this concentration, while Fjord touched
the stone, grabbed it, and jammed it into his
chest. Before all of you could even react and push
forward, it had already been thrust through his
armor and into his body. You reach over and try
and grab him, and with a strength you've never
felt in his body, he lurches towards the pond and
thrusts it fully in, seemingly under some sort of
uncontrolled force, his eyes glazed over and
staring forward. Suddenly, he comes back, and as
you glance around, you feel tension on your body
as all your friends are grabbing onto your body
and pull you away from the pool.
MARISHA: Where's the orb?
MATT: It's gone.
SAM: What the fuck was that?! What just
happened?!
TRAVIS: How do I feel?
MATT: Exhausted.
MARISHA: Are you clammy, a little warm?
MATT: You actually take a point of exhaustion.
LAURA: Can I touch his chest and his stomach?
TALIESIN: Yeah, check to see if there's a scar or
anything.
MATT: There's no damage to the armor, and as you
pull back some of the leather plates, there's no
sign of a wound.
TRAVIS: I feel funny. What happened?
LAURA: Caleb, did you Identify it before it went
into him? What was it?
TRAVIS: Into me?
LAURA: You have the thing in you!
ASHLEY: It's now in your chest.
LIAM: You grabbed the stone before I had a chance
to finish what I was doing. Why did you do that?
TRAVIS: I felt like I'd seen it before. I just
wanted to touch it.
LIAM: Why?
TRAVIS: I don't know. You ever see something you
felt like you'd seen in a dream before, but you
don't know why or how?
LIAM: No.
TALIESIN and LAURA: Yes.
TRAVIS: I'm sorry. I felt compelled to-- I felt
like there was half a chance I'd touch it and it
wouldn't be there. I saw things.
MARISHA: Like what?
TRAVIS: People I knew. A man, he's very dear to
me. I don't understand it, but he was-- I was him,
and he was holding the sphere. The eye.
LIAM: I was him, what does that mean?
ASHLEY: Who was he?
TRAVIS: Again, you ever have that dream where you
look in the water and you see another face looking
back at you, like you're someone else?
SAM and TALIESIN: Yes.
LAURA and LIAM: No.
TRAVIS: 50/50. You said I put the sphere in my--
LAURA: Yeah, you stuck it into your chest.
TRAVIS: I saw him do-- I saw me as him doing the
same thing. He was standing over someone, covered
in blood, and he put the sphere inside of him.
LAURA: Who was he?
TRAVIS: He was my mentor, a captain of mine. A man
named Vandrin.
LAURA: I've heard you say his name before.
TRAVIS: Yes. I haven't seen him in quite some
time. I don't know what any of this means, but I'm
not a fan of losing track of time like that.
LAURA: Well, what if you're cursed now? How do we
know you're going to be okay? You have a weird
thing inside of you!
MARISHA: Yeah, do you feel any heartburn or any
constipation? Because that thing was big, and it's--
TRAVIS: I bend over and put my hands on my knees,
and--
MATT: You don't feel any strange spheres in the
inside of your abdomen.
TRAVIS: I don't feel anything. I do feel pretty
tired, though.
ASHLEY: What happened to Vandrin?
TRAVIS: I'm not exactly sure. He may be dead. He
captained a ship that I worked on for many years
and there was an incident.
SAM: Did the ship sink?
TRAVIS: I believe so. There was an explosion, and
we were in terrible weather. There were waves, we
were being thrown about, and I was knocked
overboard. I never saw what happened to Vandrin,
but when I woke up, I was back on shore and I
didn't see anything of the ship or him or any of
the other crewmates.
LAURA: Maybe he's alive and you were seeing
through his eyes right now?
TRAVIS: I would like that. I would like that very
much; he was very good to me when a lot of people
in my life haven't been, but he was holding the
sphere-- how could he be holding it if I was?
LAURA: Maybe there's more than one?
MARISHA: Maybe if you concentrate on his idea,
maybe you can feel him some way. Or maybe this
thing is like a beacon to him?
SAM: Or maybe he's cursed and he's going to turn
evil and kill us all in our sleep?
MARISHA: Maybe you're cursed.
LIAM: Are you skipping any details?
ASHLEY: Yeah, how did you survive?
[battle music]
LAURA: (gasps) I feel like something's going to
attack us.
TALIESIN: Roll for initiative.
TRAVIS: (demonic voice) I'll tell you how I
survived!
MATT: Don't spoil the surprise, Travis!
MARISHA: It's a trauma film, no!
LIAM: Are you skipping any details?
TRAVIS: Did I recognize the body that was lying in
blood?
MATT: No. Nobody you'd seen before. All you recall
is seeing the orb and the same sword that you have
in his hand.
TRAVIS: No, no details. I knew this man very well.
He was almost like a father to me, and I never saw
him holding anything like this. Not that I
remember. Do I ever remember seeing anything like
that in his quarters, in his offices, anything?
MATT: No, weirdly.
TRAVIS: It's unique, I'd remember.
MATT: There's a strange aspect as you focus really
hard to remember, but the face that you saw in the
water was definitely Vandrin. Maybe a little
younger than you remember him: faintly less gray
to his hair and facial hair.
TRAVIS: I'm not leaving anything out.
ASHLEY: But how did you survive that?
TRAVIS: I'm not entirely sure. I remember getting
thrown overboard, the waves overtaking me. It was
a hell of a fight, and I'm a real good swimmer,
but you'd come up for air one second and your
mouth would be full of salt water the next. I
remember losing track of which way was up. It's
funny, when you're underwater and it's dark, the
only way to tell which way is towards the surface
is by blowing bubbles. I did that as hard as I
could with all the air that was in my lungs and
those bubbles disappeared. I remember it stinging,
filling my chest and the next thing I knew, I was
face-down on the shore.
MARISHA: Sounds a lot like dying.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I've heard a lot of tales of men
drowning, being brought back. They say that same
thing. But no one was with me on that shore, I was
alone.
LAURA: Maybe mermaids rescued you.
SAM: Or maybe your father is a sperm whale and
that's how you survived, because you're half whale
or fish.
LAURA: Maybe you're a mermaid and you don't know.
SAM: I think that that's likely.
ASHLEY: What kind of ship was it?
TRAVIS: Just a merchant ship. He had many.
LAURA: What was the explosion you talked about?
TRAVIS: There was a bit of sabotage on the ship.
MARISHA: A coup?
TRAVIS: I wish I knew. If I'm lucky, one of these
days I'll find out.
MARISHA: Well, might be sooner rather than later,
now.
LAURA: Oh man, that's totally weird.
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk up and take a look at
this pool one more time. I want to taste the
water; is it fresh or salt?
MATT: The water is salt water.
TRAVIS: The pool water?
MATT: The pool water is salt water. All the rest
of the water in this cavern is fresh.
MARISHA: The pool water is salt water?
MATT: Yes.
TALIESIN: It's sea water.
ASHLEY: Fjord, what if you try jumping in this
water?
MARISHA: I kind of agree with that.
TALIESIN: Why were they bringing religious
iconography to this thing? What were they trying
to do with it?
MARISHA: Well, this is all, from what I can
recognize, deities that are not sanctioned by the
empire.
TRAVIS: But good and evil deities.
MARISHA: I mean, things that are wanted that are
illegal are going to be wanted. It seems like
there was clearly a high demand for some people to
worship who they want to.
TRAVIS: On the edge or around it, right? Not in?
MATT: Yeah, and you get-- make an intelligence
check for me.
LIAM: I feel like we're missing something.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: Looking at this, and looking at the way
things are spread about, you get the sense that
something drew the merrow to the safe house. They
took whatever they found in the safe house below,
tore through it, and placed whatever was important
to them in this area.
SAM: They wanted this eye thing.
LAURA: That was the whole reason they attacked
was-- what if they attack you now?
TRAVIS: For what?
LAURA and SAM: For having the thing inside of
you!
TRAVIS: But you can't see it! I don't have it!
LAURA and SAM: Maybe they can sense it.
LAURA: Yeah!
SAM: We solved it.
LAURA: We solved the mystery.
LIAM: I'm going to cast Dancing Lights and scour
the room. Is there anything we're missing?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: How big is the well?
MATT: It's roughly five to eight feet in
diameter.
ASHLEY: What happens if you look over, do you see
yourself?
TRAVIS: Oh shit, that's not a bad call. I'll check
my reflection in the well.
MATT: Okay. You look in the well, the water is
moving in there. It's you.
TALIESIN: I'm going to push his head underneath
the water.
MATT: (splashing water, sputtering) Salt water,
you start coughing for a minute and come up.
TALIESIN: Anything?
TRAVIS: (coughs once)
LAURA: He's coughing up salt water again!
SAM: Just like his dreams.
TRAVIS: Try again.
TALIESIN: Tap three times when you're done. Push
him under.
SAM: Can you breathe? Can you breathe underwater?
TRAVIS: (inhales)
MATT: You are drowning.
TRAVIS: I'm tapping like a motherfucker.
MATT: You pull him out of the pool. He starts
coughing up the water.
TRAVIS: (coughing)
TALIESIN: We're even for the teleport now.
LAURA: I don't think he's a mermaid anymore.
TALIESIN: Of course, it's possible it hasn't
actually had an effect on you yet, either.
SAM: Or it can only be on the full moon, or
something.
TALIESIN: That doesn't make any sense.
SAM: I know mythology.
LAURA: Caleb, can you Detect Magic on Fjord? Can
you sense anything?
LIAM: If you have 11 minutes to spare, yes I can.
SAM: Can I just point out, not to be a jerk--
TALIESIN: Is this about whales?
LIAM: I begin ritual casting Detect Magic.
MATT: As you're doing that, you do get the sense
that the longer you're here, in a nexus between
these numerous merrow tunnels, the higher your
chance gets of having more arriving.
LIAM: Oh man, ritual casting.
LAURA: No, let's get out of here.
TALIESIN: This place is definitely making me
nervous. We should do our best to cut off this
particular flow-through.
MARISHA: Maybe they were gathering a bunch of
these items because they were looking for the
exact one for this one.
TALIESIN: I think they were trying to activate it.
They were trying to please it.
LAURA: Should we gather up all of the things and
put them back up in the tree?
SAM: Can we put them all in the bag?
TRAVIS: Anybody want any of the weapons?
Shortswords, longswords, battleaxes?
TALIESIN: Let's leave it exactly where they're
supposed to be so we did our job.
SAM: What do you mean, "where they're supposed to
be?" They stole it from the smugglers.
TALIESIN: We're working for the smugglers. We'll
put it back in the safe house.
LAURA: Okay, we'll take it all back upstairs.
MATT: You guys gather up as much as you can, take
your way via the rope through the water, Kiri in
tow. You make your way back up, handing things off
up into the tunnel. Eventually, over the next hour
or so, get most of what was down there that you
could back up into the safe house.
LAURA: Are any of the weapons that we found better
than my handaxe?
MATT: I mean, they're all what they are.
MARISHA: Any dope bos?
LIAM: Just one.
LAURA: You're Beau. You're looking for a staff?
MARISHA: Bo staff?
MATT: No quarterstaffs. They all appear to be
steel weapons that are part of this cache. There
is a long polearm-- a halberd, there's two of
them-- that does have a shaft of wood, but it's
designed for the weight of the bladed edge. You
could break it off and make it a quarterstaff if
you really wanted to, but it would be comparable
to what you already have.
MARISHA: No, I have a staff.
SAM: Any shortswords better than my shortsword?
MATT: They're well-made and fresh.
SAM: I like mine. Do they seem sharper, or
deadlier?
MATT: They're less worn, but they're not deadlier,
per se.
TRAVIS: Who's holding onto the broken-off hilt?
LAURA: I put it in the bag.
TRAVIS: Do you mind if I carry that?
TALIESIN: You know, yeah.
LIAM: Can I take 30 seconds to see if it jogs my
memory since I'm such a history buff?
MATT: Yeah, make a history check.
MARISHA: Can I assist him on that?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: You have assistance. Roll with
advantage.
LIAM: Nope. Big 13.
MATT: Doesn't jog your memory. It looks old. Looks
like it's been around a while.
MARISHA: Can I try and do it myself and do a ki
point thing?
MATT: Unfortunately, you already aided somebody
with it.
TALIESIN: He wants to do this. See if it does
anything. That's fair.
LAURA: Don't try to stick this inside of you too,
though, okay?
TRAVIS: No, I'm not.
SAM: We're back up on the upper level?
MATT: You guys are back in the safe house now,
yes.
SAM: Should we blow up the tunnel?
TALIESIN: If it's possible, I would love to cave
this thing in.
MARISHA: Do you have boom sticks still?
SAM: I don't, but two of us do. Wait, do I?
TRAVIS: We have four sticks.
LAURA: Won't the sound attract all of the things?
I feel like the sound will attract all of the
merrow people.
MARISHA: As long as we're not here.
TALIESIN: I don't think they're going to come up
once we're out of here. They'd have to dig through.
SAM: We have two of them among us.
TALIESIN: Mind like a steel trap.
LIAM: I do not have any.
TRAVIS: I just said we have two sticks.
LIAM: I heard that, but who's got them?
MARISHA: Who's got the sticks? We've got sticks.
LIAM: I also have a propeller beanie, and a bag of
chips, and-- I heard you say that. Who has them?
SAM: I think it's Molly and Fjord.
TALIESIN: I don't have any.
ASHLEY: I have a tinderbox.
TALIESIN: No, I don't have any.
MATT: Amongst you, you have two of those. Whoever
has them, you're fine.
LIAM: We're pretty sure we have them, guys.
MARISHA: Light the damn sticks of dynamite! Just
do it!
LAURA: Oh man, wait, but-- Oh, okay.
MARISHA: What?
LAURA: I wanted to check out those bodies that
were downstairs.
TALIESIN: We did.
LAURA: No, the human skeletons that were down.
SAM: They were probably smugglers that were
keeping the safe house for the Gentleman.
TALIESIN: We did check them.
LAURA: They had manacles on them, though, didn't
they? That means they were slaves or something.
SAM: Or taken prisoner.
TALIESIN: There's lots you can do with manacles.
TRAVIS: Okay, all right.
MATT: What are you guys doing?
LAURA: Blowing up a cave, I guess.
TRAVIS: Climbing the rope back up top, to the base
of the tree.
MATT: You guys get up, you all get ready to go.
You gather your things. (lighting dynamite) Watch
it sparking. It disappears, you begin to leave. As
you guys are all walking out of the storehouse,
from behind you, off to the left, there's a dull
sound, and some dirt and water from the left side
of the tree in the middle of the hot afternoon
(muffled impact). The still water that currently
exists around begins to slowly drain as a part of
the swamp off to the side sinks down about ten
feet or so. The water level drops a solid foot,
but it comes to rest. You're sure that whatever
structure that remained down there before is now
filled with dirt, sludge, swamp water, and rock.
LIAM: I hope we brought Kiri with us.
MATT: Kiri is with you.
SAM: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: "Why would they do that?!"
ASHLEY: Can I take down the bodies that are on the
trees?
MATT: Okay. Is anybody helping you with that?
LAURA: Yeah, I'll help.
LIAM: Nope.
ASHLEY: Leave them to rest in peace.
MATT: Jester and Yasha start taking down the
bloated bodies.
LAURA: Why are we doing this?
ASHLEY: So that people know that we took care of
it. So it's not a danger anymore.
TALIESIN: And to rifle through their pockets, I
imagine.
MATT, SAM and LAURA: We already did.
SAM: We're the worst people ever.
MATT: What are you doing with the bodies? Are you
leaving them in the swamp to fester?
LAURA: Should we put them in the water or
something?
ASHLEY: Yeah, food. It's the circle of life.
MATT: (singing) Circle of-- You take them and pull
them off-site, and leave them in a pile to become
one with the swamp over time. It's pretty gross
work.
TALIESIN: You want swamp things? This is how you
get swamp things.
MARISHA: While they bury bodies, I pull Caleb
aside, and say: hey, can I talk to you for five
seconds? Ten, maybe, tops. 15. Okay, it might be
more like 20 seconds. Will you give me 20 seconds?
Over here? No, you know what, it's fine. I can say
it in front of everybody. I'm sorry. I wanted to
apologize for last night. I got a little
aggressive, a little handsy. I shouldn't have done
that, I was out of line, and I shouldn't have
brought up your past shit. Sorry. See, 20 seconds,
that was about right? That was good?
TRAVIS: (whispers) Genuine.
MARISHA: I'm-- He's just staring at me.
LAURA: Caleb! Here's where you respond to her.
MARISHA: You saw the worst side of me--
LIAM: I give Beauregard a hug, and say: I don't
know what I'm doing. Just go with it.
MARISHA: I look at Fjord over my shoulder.
LIAM: I look to Yasha.
MARISHA: I hug him back? Do I go like this?
TRAVIS: Not too tight.
ASHLEY: Pat, pat.
SAM: This makes me feel awkward.
LAURA: It's so uncomfortable.
(applause)
SAM: That was really good, guys!
MATT: (like Nott) "Welcome to the Mighty Nein!"
(laughter)
LIAM: Caleb doesn't laugh like that at all.
(awkward laughing) That's not necessary.
SAM: Yes it is, she was really rude to you and--
LIAM: Not. Necessary. Working on it.
TRAVIS: Nice job.
MARISHA: Was it? I don't know how I feel about
that. Good talk, friend. Seriously though, friend?
LIAM: Ja okay.
MARISHA: Ja? How do you say it?
TRAVIS: (coughing) Quit while you're ahead.
MARISHA: All right. And I walk away.
TALIESIN: Been a while.
ASHLEY: It was good.
LAURA: Hey Caleb, do you know how to find our way
out of this swamp?
SAM: Find our way out?
LIAM: Of course I do.
LAURA: Yeah, aren't we done here?
TALIESIN: We're done, we're heading out.
SAM: I think we have (cocks crossbow) a troll
to find.
TRAVIS: Drunk-ass fucking Nott, dwelling on old
shit.
LIAM: You made Babs Tarr hide her head in her
laptop, man!
SAM: Or we could just leave.
ASHLEY: I mean, that is 100 gold.
LAURA: Yeah, but he almost killed us like super
easy.
TRAVIS: He bleeds death and stuff. We'd have to
hit him from afar. It might not be worth it.
LIAM: Well, my friends, whatever we do, we are
really fucked up. At least Beauregard and I are
really fucked up.
LAURA: Well, I have a couple of level ones left.
Blam blam!
SAM: Did you just Salt Bae them?
MATT: That is now my new favorite--
LAURA: That's great! You both heal 12 points!
MARISHA: Oh my goodness! I'm almost up to full
now!
MATT: I think Salt Bae cleric is my new favorite
idea for a character.
ASHLEY: Was that for everyone?
LAURA: No, that was just for them. I'm sorry,
Yasha.
ASHLEY: No, it's fine.
TALIESIN: That was a great roll.
LIAM: Shit, let's go find Vecna!
MATT: As you guys gather your things and begin to
trudge southward, back into the Labenda Swamp to
make your way back to the city of Barleben, a bit
wounded, but you've succeeded in your first task
for the Gentleman, you begin to make your way
through the reverse guidance of Caleb in the
direction you were traveling. Backward guidance,
we'll put it that way.
LIAM: Reverse math. We came from that direction
precisely.
MATT: As you're all taking a moment to look
through, keeping your eyes peeled, weapons drawn,
Fjord, your eyes catch the summoned falchion in
your hand, and there, glittering in the center of
the hilt, where there was none previously, is a
single yellow eye.
And that's where we're going to
end tonight's episode.
(cheering)
SAM: Wait, where was it?
MATT: On the hilt of the blade.
LIAM: Oh, that's a Final Fantasy VII Materia
rogue.
MATT: That's Materia slot?
LAURA: His sword keeps getting cooler and cooler.
MARISHA: It does.
MATT: It's like it's the basis of his class.
LIAM: Bling it out, man. Bling that shit out.
MATT: All right. We're going to pick up on that
next Thursday, as you guys return. Oh man, shit's
getting interesting and weird. Thank you for
hanging with us. Hope you guys enjoyed it as much as
we did. Thank you, Babs, for being awesome and
hanging out with us tonight. That was awesome.
Have a wonderful week, we'll see you guys next
Thursday, we love you, and is it Thursday yet?
[music]